FIRST

The Jungle Book

Rudyard Kipling




Contents

     Mowgli's Brothers
     Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack
     Kaa's Hunting
     Road-Song of the Bandar-Log
     "Tiger! Tiger!"
     Mowgli's Song
     The White Seal
     Lukannon
     "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi"
     Darzee's Chant
     Toomai of the Elephants
     Shiv and the Grasshopper
     Her Majesty's Servants
     Parade Song of the Camp Animals




Mowgli's Brothers

     Now Rann the Kite brings home the night
        That Mang the Bat sets free--
     The herds are shut in byre and hut
        For loosed till dawn are we.
     This is the hour of pride and power,
        Talon and tush and claw.
     Oh, hear the call!--Good hunting all
        That keep the Jungle Law!
     Night-Song in the Jungle

It was seven o'clock of a very warm evening in the Seeonee hills when
Father Wolf woke up from his day's rest, scratched himself, yawned, and
spread out his paws one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feeling
in their tips. Mother Wolf lay with her big gray nose dropped across her
four tumbling, squealing cubs, and the moon shone into the mouth of the
cave where they all lived. "Augrh!" said Father Wolf. "It is time to
hunt again." He was going to spring down hill when a little shadow with
a bushy tail crossed the threshold and whined: "Good luck go with you, O
Chief of the Wolves. And good luck and strong white teeth go with noble
children that they may never forget the hungry in this world."

It was the jackal--Tabaqui, the Dish-licker--and the wolves of India
despise Tabaqui because he runs about making mischief, and telling
tales, and eating rags and pieces of leather from the village
rubbish-heaps. But they are afraid of him too, because Tabaqui, more
than anyone else in the jungle, is apt to go mad, and then he forgets
that he was ever afraid of anyone, and runs through the forest biting
everything in his way. Even the tiger runs and hides when little Tabaqui
goes mad, for madness is the most disgraceful thing that can overtake
a wild creature. We call it hydrophobia, but they call it dewanee--the
madness--and run.

"Enter, then, and look," said Father Wolf stiffly, "but there is no food
here."

"For a wolf, no," said Tabaqui, "but for so mean a person as myself a
dry bone is a good feast. Who are we, the Gidur-log [the jackal people],
to pick and choose?" He scuttled to the back of the cave, where he
found the bone of a buck with some meat on it, and sat cracking the end
merrily.

"All thanks for this good meal," he said, licking his lips. "How
beautiful are the noble children! How large are their eyes! And so young
too! Indeed, indeed, I might have remembered that the children of kings
are men from the beginning."

Now, Tabaqui knew as well as anyone else that there is nothing so
unlucky as to compliment children to their faces. It pleased him to see
Mother and Father Wolf look uncomfortable.

Tabaqui sat still, rejoicing in the mischief that he had made, and then
he said spitefully:

"Shere Khan, the Big One, has shifted his hunting grounds. He will hunt
among these hills for the next moon, so he has told me."

Shere Khan was the tiger who lived near the Waingunga River, twenty
miles away.

"He has no right!" Father Wolf began angrily--"By the Law of the Jungle
he has no right to change his quarters without due warning. He will
frighten every head of game within ten miles, and I--I have to kill for
two, these days."

"His mother did not call him Lungri [the Lame One] for nothing," said
Mother Wolf quietly. "He has been lame in one foot from his birth. That
is why he has only killed cattle. Now the villagers of the Waingunga are
angry with him, and he has come here to make our villagers angry.
They will scour the jungle for him when he is far away, and we and our
children must run when the grass is set alight. Indeed, we are very
grateful to Shere Khan!"

"Shall I tell him of your gratitude?" said Tabaqui.

"Out!" snapped Father Wolf. "Out and hunt with thy master. Thou hast
done harm enough for one night."

"I go," said Tabaqui quietly. "Ye can hear Shere Khan below in the
thickets. I might have saved myself the message."

Father Wolf listened, and below in the valley that ran down to a little
river he heard the dry, angry, snarly, singsong whine of a tiger who has
caught nothing and does not care if all the jungle knows it.

"The fool!" said Father Wolf. "To begin a night's work with that noise!
Does he think that our buck are like his fat Waingunga bullocks?"

"H'sh. It is neither bullock nor buck he hunts to-night," said Mother
Wolf. "It is Man."

The whine had changed to a sort of humming purr that seemed to come
from every quarter of the compass. It was the noise that bewilders
woodcutters and gypsies sleeping in the open, and makes them run
sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger.

"Man!" said Father Wolf, showing all his white teeth. "Faugh! Are there
not enough beetles and frogs in the tanks that he must eat Man, and on
our ground too!"

The Law of the Jungle, which never orders anything without a reason,
forbids every beast to eat Man except when he is killing to show his
children how to kill, and then he must hunt outside the hunting grounds
of his pack or tribe. The real reason for this is that man-killing
means, sooner or later, the arrival of white men on elephants, with
guns, and hundreds of brown men with gongs and rockets and torches.
Then everybody in the jungle suffers. The reason the beasts give among
themselves is that Man is the weakest and most defenseless of all living
things, and it is unsportsmanlike to touch him. They say too--and it is
true--that man-eaters become mangy, and lose their teeth.

The purr grew louder, and ended in the full-throated "Aaarh!" of the
tiger's charge.

Then there was a howl--an untigerish howl--from Shere Khan. "He has
missed," said Mother Wolf. "What is it?"

Father Wolf ran out a few paces and heard Shere Khan muttering and
mumbling savagely as he tumbled about in the scrub.

"The fool has had no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter's campfire,
and has burned his feet," said Father Wolf with a grunt. "Tabaqui is
with him."

"Something is coming uphill," said Mother Wolf, twitching one ear. "Get
ready."

The bushes rustled a little in the thicket, and Father Wolf dropped
with his haunches under him, ready for his leap. Then, if you had been
watching, you would have seen the most wonderful thing in the world--the
wolf checked in mid-spring. He made his bound before he saw what it was
he was jumping at, and then he tried to stop himself. The result was
that he shot up straight into the air for four or five feet, landing
almost where he left ground.

"Man!" he snapped. "A man's cub. Look!"

Directly in front of him, holding on by a low branch, stood a naked
brown baby who could just walk--as soft and as dimpled a little atom
as ever came to a wolf's cave at night. He looked up into Father Wolf's
face, and laughed.

"Is that a man's cub?" said Mother Wolf. "I have never seen one. Bring
it here."

A Wolf accustomed to moving his own cubs can, if necessary, mouth an egg
without breaking it, and though Father Wolf's jaws closed right on the
child's back not a tooth even scratched the skin as he laid it down
among the cubs.

"How little! How naked, and--how bold!" said Mother Wolf softly. The
baby was pushing his way between the cubs to get close to the warm hide.
"Ahai! He is taking his meal with the others. And so this is a man's
cub. Now, was there ever a wolf that could boast of a man's cub among
her children?"

"I have heard now and again of such a thing, but never in our Pack or in
my time," said Father Wolf. "He is altogether without hair, and I
could kill him with a touch of my foot. But see, he looks up and is not
afraid."

The moonlight was blocked out of the mouth of the cave, for Shere Khan's
great square head and shoulders were thrust into the entrance. Tabaqui,
behind him, was squeaking: "My lord, my lord, it went in here!"

"Shere Khan does us great honor," said Father Wolf, but his eyes were
very angry. "What does Shere Khan need?"

"My quarry. A man's cub went this way," said Shere Khan. "Its parents
have run off. Give it to me."

Shere Khan had jumped at a woodcutter's campfire, as Father Wolf had
said, and was furious from the pain of his burned feet. But Father Wolf
knew that the mouth of the cave was too narrow for a tiger to come in
by. Even where he was, Shere Khan's shoulders and forepaws were cramped
for want of room, as a man's would be if he tried to fight in a barrel.

"The Wolves are a free people," said Father Wolf. "They take orders from
the Head of the Pack, and not from any striped cattle-killer. The man's
cub is ours--to kill if we choose."

"Ye choose and ye do not choose! What talk is this of choosing? By the
bull that I killed, am I to stand nosing into your dog's den for my fair
dues? It is I, Shere Khan, who speak!"

The tiger's roar filled the cave with thunder. Mother Wolf shook herself
clear of the cubs and sprang forward, her eyes, like two green moons in
the darkness, facing the blazing eyes of Shere Khan.

"And it is I, Raksha [The Demon], who answers. The man's cub is mine,
Lungri--mine to me! He shall not be killed. He shall live to run with
the Pack and to hunt with the Pack; and in the end, look you, hunter of
little naked cubs--frog-eater--fish-killer--he shall hunt thee! Now get
hence, or by the Sambhur that I killed (I eat no starved cattle), back
thou goest to thy mother, burned beast of the jungle, lamer than ever
thou camest into the world! Go!"

Father Wolf looked on amazed. He had almost forgotten the days when he
won Mother Wolf in fair fight from five other wolves, when she ran in
the Pack and was not called The Demon for compliment's sake. Shere Khan
might have faced Father Wolf, but he could not stand up against Mother
Wolf, for he knew that where he was she had all the advantage of the
ground, and would fight to the death. So he backed out of the cave mouth
growling, and when he was clear he shouted:

"Each dog barks in his own yard! We will see what the Pack will say to
this fostering of man-cubs. The cub is mine, and to my teeth he will
come in the end, O bush-tailed thieves!"

Mother Wolf threw herself down panting among the cubs, and Father Wolf
said to her gravely:

"Shere Khan speaks this much truth. The cub must be shown to the Pack.
Wilt thou still keep him, Mother?"

"Keep him!" she gasped. "He came naked, by night, alone and very hungry;
yet he was not afraid! Look, he has pushed one of my babes to one side
already. And that lame butcher would have killed him and would have run
off to the Waingunga while the villagers here hunted through all our
lairs in revenge! Keep him? Assuredly I will keep him. Lie still, little
frog. O thou Mowgli--for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee--the time will
come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee."

"But what will our Pack say?" said Father Wolf.

The Law of the Jungle lays down very clearly that any wolf may, when he
marries, withdraw from the Pack he belongs to. But as soon as his cubs
are old enough to stand on their feet he must bring them to the Pack
Council, which is generally held once a month at full moon, in order
that the other wolves may identify them. After that inspection the cubs
are free to run where they please, and until they have killed their
first buck no excuse is accepted if a grown wolf of the Pack kills one
of them. The punishment is death where the murderer can be found; and if
you think for a minute you will see that this must be so.

Father Wolf waited till his cubs could run a little, and then on the
night of the Pack Meeting took them and Mowgli and Mother Wolf to the
Council Rock--a hilltop covered with stones and boulders where a hundred
wolves could hide. Akela, the great gray Lone Wolf, who led all the Pack
by strength and cunning, lay out at full length on his rock, and
below him sat forty or more wolves of every size and color, from
badger-colored veterans who could handle a buck alone to young black
three-year-olds who thought they could. The Lone Wolf had led them for a
year now. He had fallen twice into a wolf trap in his youth, and once he
had been beaten and left for dead; so he knew the manners and customs
of men. There was very little talking at the Rock. The cubs tumbled over
each other in the center of the circle where their mothers and fathers
sat, and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub, look
at him carefully, and return to his place on noiseless feet. Sometimes a
mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that
he had not been overlooked. Akela from his rock would cry: "Ye know
the Law--ye know the Law. Look well, O Wolves!" And the anxious mothers
would take up the call: "Look--look well, O Wolves!"

At last--and Mother Wolf's neck bristles lifted as the time came--Father
Wolf pushed "Mowgli the Frog," as they called him, into the center,
where he sat laughing and playing with some pebbles that glistened in
the moonlight.

Akela never raised his head from his paws, but went on with the
monotonous cry: "Look well!" A muffled roar came up from behind the
rocks--the voice of Shere Khan crying: "The cub is mine. Give him to
me. What have the Free People to do with a man's cub?" Akela never even
twitched his ears. All he said was: "Look well, O Wolves! What have
the Free People to do with the orders of any save the Free People? Look
well!"

There was a chorus of deep growls, and a young wolf in his fourth year
flung back Shere Khan's question to Akela: "What have the Free People to
do with a man's cub?" Now, the Law of the Jungle lays down that if there
is any dispute as to the right of a cub to be accepted by the Pack, he
must be spoken for by at least two members of the Pack who are not his
father and mother.

"Who speaks for this cub?" said Akela. "Among the Free People who
speaks?" There was no answer and Mother Wolf got ready for what she knew
would be her last fight, if things came to fighting.

Then the only other creature who is allowed at the Pack Council--Baloo,
the sleepy brown bear who teaches the wolf cubs the Law of the Jungle:
old Baloo, who can come and go where he pleases because he eats only
nuts and roots and honey--rose upon his hind quarters and grunted.

"The man's cub--the man's cub?" he said. "I speak for the man's cub.
There is no harm in a man's cub. I have no gift of words, but I speak
the truth. Let him run with the Pack, and be entered with the others. I
myself will teach him."

"We need yet another," said Akela. "Baloo has spoken, and he is our
teacher for the young cubs. Who speaks besides Baloo?"

A black shadow dropped down into the circle. It was Bagheera the Black
Panther, inky black all over, but with the panther markings showing
up in certain lights like the pattern of watered silk. Everybody knew
Bagheera, and nobody cared to cross his path; for he was as cunning as
Tabaqui, as bold as the wild buffalo, and as reckless as the wounded
elephant. But he had a voice as soft as wild honey dripping from a tree,
and a skin softer than down.

"O Akela, and ye the Free People," he purred, "I have no right in your
assembly, but the Law of the Jungle says that if there is a doubt which
is not a killing matter in regard to a new cub, the life of that cub may
be bought at a price. And the Law does not say who may or may not pay
that price. Am I right?"

"Good! Good!" said the young wolves, who are always hungry. "Listen to
Bagheera. The cub can be bought for a price. It is the Law."

"Knowing that I have no right to speak here, I ask your leave."

"Speak then," cried twenty voices.

"To kill a naked cub is shame. Besides, he may make better sport for you
when he is grown. Baloo has spoken in his behalf. Now to Baloo's word
I will add one bull, and a fat one, newly killed, not half a mile
from here, if ye will accept the man's cub according to the Law. Is it
difficult?"

There was a clamor of scores of voices, saying: "What matter? He will
die in the winter rains. He will scorch in the sun. What harm can
a naked frog do us? Let him run with the Pack. Where is the bull,
Bagheera? Let him be accepted." And then came Akela's deep bay, crying:
"Look well--look well, O Wolves!"

Mowgli was still deeply interested in the pebbles, and he did not notice
when the wolves came and looked at him one by one. At last they all went
down the hill for the dead bull, and only Akela, Bagheera, Baloo, and
Mowgli's own wolves were left. Shere Khan roared still in the night, for
he was very angry that Mowgli had not been handed over to him.

"Ay, roar well," said Bagheera, under his whiskers, "for the time will
come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune, or I
know nothing of man."

"It was well done," said Akela. "Men and their cubs are very wise. He
may be a help in time."

"Truly, a help in time of need; for none can hope to lead the Pack
forever," said Bagheera.

Akela said nothing. He was thinking of the time that comes to every
leader of every pack when his strength goes from him and he gets feebler
and feebler, till at last he is killed by the wolves and a new leader
comes up--to be killed in his turn.

"Take him away," he said to Father Wolf, "and train him as befits one of
the Free People."

And that is how Mowgli was entered into the Seeonee Wolf Pack for the
price of a bull and on Baloo's good word.

Now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole years, and only
guess at all the wonderful life that Mowgli led among the wolves,
because if it were written out it would fill ever so many books. He
grew up with the cubs, though they, of course, were grown wolves almost
before he was a child. And Father Wolf taught him his business, and the
meaning of things in the jungle, till every rustle in the grass, every
breath of the warm night air, every note of the owls above his head,
every scratch of a bat's claws as it roosted for a while in a tree, and
every splash of every little fish jumping in a pool meant just as much
to him as the work of his office means to a business man. When he was
not learning he sat out in the sun and slept, and ate and went to sleep
again. When he felt dirty or hot he swam in the forest pools; and
when he wanted honey (Baloo told him that honey and nuts were just as
pleasant to eat as raw meat) he climbed up for it, and that Bagheera
showed him how to do. Bagheera would lie out on a branch and call, "Come
along, Little Brother," and at first Mowgli would cling like the sloth,
but afterward he would fling himself through the branches almost as
boldly as the gray ape. He took his place at the Council Rock, too,
when the Pack met, and there he discovered that if he stared hard at any
wolf, the wolf would be forced to drop his eyes, and so he used to stare
for fun. At other times he would pick the long thorns out of the pads
of his friends, for wolves suffer terribly from thorns and burs in their
coats. He would go down the hillside into the cultivated lands by night,
and look very curiously at the villagers in their huts, but he had a
mistrust of men because Bagheera showed him a square box with a drop
gate so cunningly hidden in the jungle that he nearly walked into it,
and told him that it was a trap. He loved better than anything else to
go with Bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest, to sleep all
through the drowsy day, and at night see how Bagheera did his
killing. Bagheera killed right and left as he felt hungry, and so did
Mowgli--with one exception. As soon as he was old enough to understand
things, Bagheera told him that he must never touch cattle because he had
been bought into the Pack at the price of a bull's life. "All the jungle
is thine," said Bagheera, "and thou canst kill everything that thou art
strong enough to kill; but for the sake of the bull that bought thee
thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. That is the Law of
the Jungle." Mowgli obeyed faithfully.

And he grew and grew strong as a boy must grow who does not know that
he is learning any lessons, and who has nothing in the world to think of
except things to eat.

Mother Wolf told him once or twice that Shere Khan was not a creature
to be trusted, and that some day he must kill Shere Khan. But though a
young wolf would have remembered that advice every hour, Mowgli forgot
it because he was only a boy--though he would have called himself a wolf
if he had been able to speak in any human tongue.

Shere Khan was always crossing his path in the jungle, for as Akela grew
older and feebler the lame tiger had come to be great friends with the
younger wolves of the Pack, who followed him for scraps, a thing Akela
would never have allowed if he had dared to push his authority to the
proper bounds. Then Shere Khan would flatter them and wonder that such
fine young hunters were content to be led by a dying wolf and a man's
cub. "They tell me," Shere Khan would say, "that at Council ye dare
not look him between the eyes." And the young wolves would growl and
bristle.

Bagheera, who had eyes and ears everywhere, knew something of this, and
once or twice he told Mowgli in so many words that Shere Khan would kill
him some day. Mowgli would laugh and answer: "I have the Pack and I have
thee; and Baloo, though he is so lazy, might strike a blow or two for my
sake. Why should I be afraid?"

It was one very warm day that a new notion came to Bagheera--born of
something that he had heard. Perhaps Ikki the Porcupine had told him;
but he said to Mowgli when they were deep in the jungle, as the boy lay
with his head on Bagheera's beautiful black skin, "Little Brother, how
often have I told thee that Shere Khan is thy enemy?"

"As many times as there are nuts on that palm," said Mowgli, who,
naturally, could not count. "What of it? I am sleepy, Bagheera, and
Shere Khan is all long tail and loud talk--like Mao, the Peacock."

"But this is no time for sleeping. Baloo knows it; I know it; the Pack
know it; and even the foolish, foolish deer know. Tabaqui has told thee
too."

"Ho! ho!" said Mowgli. "Tabaqui came to me not long ago with some rude
talk that I was a naked man's cub and not fit to dig pig-nuts. But I
caught Tabaqui by the tail and swung him twice against a palm-tree to
teach him better manners."

"That was foolishness, for though Tabaqui is a mischief-maker, he would
have told thee of something that concerned thee closely. Open those
eyes, Little Brother. Shere Khan dare not kill thee in the jungle. But
remember, Akela is very old, and soon the day comes when he cannot kill
his buck, and then he will be leader no more. Many of the wolves that
looked thee over when thou wast brought to the Council first are old
too, and the young wolves believe, as Shere Khan has taught them, that
a man-cub has no place with the Pack. In a little time thou wilt be a
man."

"And what is a man that he should not run with his brothers?" said
Mowgli. "I was born in the jungle. I have obeyed the Law of the Jungle,
and there is no wolf of ours from whose paws I have not pulled a thorn.
Surely they are my brothers!"

Bagheera stretched himself at full length and half shut his eyes.
"Little Brother," said he, "feel under my jaw."

Mowgli put up his strong brown hand, and just under Bagheera's silky
chin, where the giant rolling muscles were all hid by the glossy hair,
he came upon a little bald spot.

"There is no one in the jungle that knows that I, Bagheera, carry that
mark--the mark of the collar; and yet, Little Brother, I was born among
men, and it was among men that my mother died--in the cages of the
king's palace at Oodeypore. It was because of this that I paid the price
for thee at the Council when thou wast a little naked cub. Yes, I too
was born among men. I had never seen the jungle. They fed me behind
bars from an iron pan till one night I felt that I was Bagheera--the
Panther--and no man's plaything, and I broke the silly lock with one
blow of my paw and came away. And because I had learned the ways of men,
I became more terrible in the jungle than Shere Khan. Is it not so?"

"Yes," said Mowgli, "all the jungle fear Bagheera--all except Mowgli."

"Oh, thou art a man's cub," said the Black Panther very tenderly. "And
even as I returned to my jungle, so thou must go back to men at last--to
the men who are thy brothers--if thou art not killed in the Council."

"But why--but why should any wish to kill me?" said Mowgli.

"Look at me," said Bagheera. And Mowgli looked at him steadily between
the eyes. The big panther turned his head away in half a minute.

"That is why," he said, shifting his paw on the leaves. "Not even I can
look thee between the eyes, and I was born among men, and I love thee,
Little Brother. The others they hate thee because their eyes cannot meet
thine; because thou art wise; because thou hast pulled out thorns from
their feet--because thou art a man."

"I did not know these things," said Mowgli sullenly, and he frowned
under his heavy black eyebrows.

"What is the Law of the Jungle? Strike first and then give tongue. By
thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man. But be wise. It is
in my heart that when Akela misses his next kill--and at each hunt
it costs him more to pin the buck--the Pack will turn against him and
against thee. They will hold a jungle Council at the Rock, and then--and
then--I have it!" said Bagheera, leaping up. "Go thou down quickly to
the men's huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which they
grow there, so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger
friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee. Get the Red
Flower."

By Red Flower Bagheera meant fire, only no creature in the jungle will
call fire by its proper name. Every beast lives in deadly fear of it,
and invents a hundred ways of describing it.

"The Red Flower?" said Mowgli. "That grows outside their huts in the
twilight. I will get some."

"There speaks the man's cub," said Bagheera proudly. "Remember that it
grows in little pots. Get one swiftly, and keep it by thee for time of
need."

"Good!" said Mowgli. "I go. But art thou sure, O my Bagheera"--he
slipped his arm around the splendid neck and looked deep into the big
eyes--"art thou sure that all this is Shere Khan's doing?"

"By the Broken Lock that freed me, I am sure, Little Brother."

"Then, by the Bull that bought me, I will pay Shere Khan full tale for
this, and it may be a little over," said Mowgli, and he bounded away.

"That is a man. That is all a man," said Bagheera to himself, lying down
again. "Oh, Shere Khan, never was a blacker hunting than that frog-hunt
of thine ten years ago!"

Mowgli was far and far through the forest, running hard, and his heart
was hot in him. He came to the cave as the evening mist rose, and drew
breath, and looked down the valley. The cubs were out, but Mother
Wolf, at the back of the cave, knew by his breathing that something was
troubling her frog.

"What is it, Son?" she said.

"Some bat's chatter of Shere Khan," he called back. "I hunt among the
plowed fields tonight," and he plunged downward through the bushes, to
the stream at the bottom of the valley. There he checked, for he heard
the yell of the Pack hunting, heard the bellow of a hunted Sambhur,
and the snort as the buck turned at bay. Then there were wicked, bitter
howls from the young wolves: "Akela! Akela! Let the Lone Wolf show his
strength. Room for the leader of the Pack! Spring, Akela!"

The Lone Wolf must have sprung and missed his hold, for Mowgli heard the
snap of his teeth and then a yelp as the Sambhur knocked him over with
his forefoot.

He did not wait for anything more, but dashed on; and the yells grew
fainter behind him as he ran into the croplands where the villagers
lived.

"Bagheera spoke truth," he panted, as he nestled down in some cattle
fodder by the window of a hut. "To-morrow is one day both for Akela and
for me."

Then he pressed his face close to the window and watched the fire on
the hearth. He saw the husbandman's wife get up and feed it in the night
with black lumps. And when the morning came and the mists were all white
and cold, he saw the man's child pick up a wicker pot plastered inside
with earth, fill it with lumps of red-hot charcoal, put it under his
blanket, and go out to tend the cows in the byre.

"Is that all?" said Mowgli. "If a cub can do it, there is nothing to
fear." So he strode round the corner and met the boy, took the pot from
his hand, and disappeared into the mist while the boy howled with fear.

"They are very like me," said Mowgli, blowing into the pot as he had
seen the woman do. "This thing will die if I do not give it things to
eat"; and he dropped twigs and dried bark on the red stuff. Halfway up
the hill he met Bagheera with the morning dew shining like moonstones on
his coat.

"Akela has missed," said the Panther. "They would have killed him last
night, but they needed thee also. They were looking for thee on the
hill."

"I was among the plowed lands. I am ready. See!" Mowgli held up the
fire-pot.

"Good! Now, I have seen men thrust a dry branch into that stuff, and
presently the Red Flower blossomed at the end of it. Art thou not
afraid?"

"No. Why should I fear? I remember now--if it is not a dream--how,
before I was a Wolf, I lay beside the Red Flower, and it was warm and
pleasant."

All that day Mowgli sat in the cave tending his fire pot and dipping
dry branches into it to see how they looked. He found a branch that
satisfied him, and in the evening when Tabaqui came to the cave and told
him rudely enough that he was wanted at the Council Rock, he laughed
till Tabaqui ran away. Then Mowgli went to the Council, still laughing.

Akela the Lone Wolf lay by the side of his rock as a sign that the
leadership of the Pack was open, and Shere Khan with his following of
scrap-fed wolves walked to and fro openly being flattered. Bagheera lay
close to Mowgli, and the fire pot was between Mowgli's knees. When they
were all gathered together, Shere Khan began to speak--a thing he would
never have dared to do when Akela was in his prime.

"He has no right," whispered Bagheera. "Say so. He is a dog's son. He
will be frightened."

Mowgli sprang to his feet. "Free People," he cried, "does Shere Khan
lead the Pack? What has a tiger to do with our leadership?"

"Seeing that the leadership is yet open, and being asked to speak--"
Shere Khan began.

"By whom?" said Mowgli. "Are we all jackals, to fawn on this cattle
butcher? The leadership of the Pack is with the Pack alone."

There were yells of "Silence, thou man's cub!" "Let him speak. He has
kept our Law"; and at last the seniors of the Pack thundered: "Let the
Dead Wolf speak." When a leader of the Pack has missed his kill, he is
called the Dead Wolf as long as he lives, which is not long.

Akela raised his old head wearily:--

"Free People, and ye too, jackals of Shere Khan, for twelve seasons I
have led ye to and from the kill, and in all that time not one has been
trapped or maimed. Now I have missed my kill. Ye know how that plot
was made. Ye know how ye brought me up to an untried buck to make my
weakness known. It was cleverly done. Your right is to kill me here on
the Council Rock, now. Therefore, I ask, who comes to make an end of the
Lone Wolf? For it is my right, by the Law of the Jungle, that ye come
one by one."

There was a long hush, for no single wolf cared to fight Akela to
the death. Then Shere Khan roared: "Bah! What have we to do with this
toothless fool? He is doomed to die! It is the man-cub who has lived too
long. Free People, he was my meat from the first. Give him to me. I
am weary of this man-wolf folly. He has troubled the jungle for ten
seasons. Give me the man-cub, or I will hunt here always, and not give
you one bone. He is a man, a man's child, and from the marrow of my
bones I hate him!"

Then more than half the Pack yelled: "A man! A man! What has a man to do
with us? Let him go to his own place."

"And turn all the people of the villages against us?" clamored Shere
Khan. "No, give him to me. He is a man, and none of us can look him
between the eyes."

Akela lifted his head again and said, "He has eaten our food. He has
slept with us. He has driven game for us. He has broken no word of the
Law of the Jungle."

"Also, I paid for him with a bull when he was accepted. The worth of a
bull is little, but Bagheera's honor is something that he will perhaps
fight for," said Bagheera in his gentlest voice.

"A bull paid ten years ago!" the Pack snarled. "What do we care for
bones ten years old?"

"Or for a pledge?" said Bagheera, his white teeth bared under his lip.
"Well are ye called the Free People!"

"No man's cub can run with the people of the jungle," howled Shere Khan.
"Give him to me!"

"He is our brother in all but blood," Akela went on, "and ye would kill
him here! In truth, I have lived too long. Some of ye are eaters of
cattle, and of others I have heard that, under Shere Khan's teaching,
ye go by dark night and snatch children from the villager's doorstep.
Therefore I know ye to be cowards, and it is to cowards I speak. It is
certain that I must die, and my life is of no worth, or I would offer
that in the man-cub's place. But for the sake of the Honor of
the Pack,--a little matter that by being without a leader ye have
forgotten,--I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place, I
will not, when my time comes to die, bare one tooth against ye. I will
die without fighting. That will at least save the Pack three lives.
More I cannot do; but if ye will, I can save ye the shame that comes of
killing a brother against whom there is no fault--a brother spoken for
and bought into the Pack according to the Law of the Jungle."

"He is a man--a man--a man!" snarled the Pack. And most of the wolves
began to gather round Shere Khan, whose tail was beginning to switch.

"Now the business is in thy hands," said Bagheera to Mowgli. "We can do
no more except fight."

Mowgli stood upright--the fire pot in his hands. Then he stretched out
his arms, and yawned in the face of the Council; but he was furious with
rage and sorrow, for, wolflike, the wolves had never told him how they
hated him. "Listen you!" he cried. "There is no need for this dog's
jabber. Ye have told me so often tonight that I am a man (and indeed I
would have been a wolf with you to my life's end) that I feel your words
are true. So I do not call ye my brothers any more, but sag [dogs], as
a man should. What ye will do, and what ye will not do, is not yours
to say. That matter is with me; and that we may see the matter more
plainly, I, the man, have brought here a little of the Red Flower which
ye, dogs, fear."

He flung the fire pot on the ground, and some of the red coals lit
a tuft of dried moss that flared up, as all the Council drew back in
terror before the leaping flames.

Mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twigs lit and
crackled, and whirled it above his head among the cowering wolves.

"Thou art the master," said Bagheera in an undertone. "Save Akela from
the death. He was ever thy friend."

Akela, the grim old wolf who had never asked for mercy in his life, gave
one piteous look at Mowgli as the boy stood all naked, his long black
hair tossing over his shoulders in the light of the blazing branch that
made the shadows jump and quiver.

"Good!" said Mowgli, staring round slowly. "I see that ye are dogs. I go
from you to my own people--if they be my own people. The jungle is shut
to me, and I must forget your talk and your companionship. But I will be
more merciful than ye are. Because I was all but your brother in blood,
I promise that when I am a man among men I will not betray ye to men as
ye have betrayed me." He kicked the fire with his foot, and the sparks
flew up. "There shall be no war between any of us in the Pack. But here
is a debt to pay before I go." He strode forward to where Shere Khan sat
blinking stupidly at the flames, and caught him by the tuft on his chin.
Bagheera followed in case of accidents. "Up, dog!" Mowgli cried. "Up,
when a man speaks, or I will set that coat ablaze!"

Shere Khan's ears lay flat back on his head, and he shut his eyes, for
the blazing branch was very near.

"This cattle-killer said he would kill me in the Council because he had
not killed me when I was a cub. Thus and thus, then, do we beat dogs
when we are men. Stir a whisker, Lungri, and I ram the Red Flower down
thy gullet!" He beat Shere Khan over the head with the branch, and the
tiger whimpered and whined in an agony of fear.

"Pah! Singed jungle cat--go now! But remember when next I come to the
Council Rock, as a man should come, it will be with Shere Khan's hide
on my head. For the rest, Akela goes free to live as he pleases. Ye will
not kill him, because that is not my will. Nor do I think that ye
will sit here any longer, lolling out your tongues as though ye were
somebodies, instead of dogs whom I drive out--thus! Go!" The fire was
burning furiously at the end of the branch, and Mowgli struck right
and left round the circle, and the wolves ran howling with the sparks
burning their fur. At last there were only Akela, Bagheera, and perhaps
ten wolves that had taken Mowgli's part. Then something began to hurt
Mowgli inside him, as he had never been hurt in his life before, and he
caught his breath and sobbed, and the tears ran down his face.

"What is it? What is it?" he said. "I do not wish to leave the jungle,
and I do not know what this is. Am I dying, Bagheera?"

"No, Little Brother. That is only tears such as men use," said Bagheera.
"Now I know thou art a man, and a man's cub no longer. The jungle is
shut indeed to thee henceforward. Let them fall, Mowgli. They are only
tears." So Mowgli sat and cried as though his heart would break; and he
had never cried in all his life before.

"Now," he said, "I will go to men. But first I must say farewell to my
mother." And he went to the cave where she lived with Father Wolf, and
he cried on her coat, while the four cubs howled miserably.

"Ye will not forget me?" said Mowgli.

"Never while we can follow a trail," said the cubs. "Come to the foot of
the hill when thou art a man, and we will talk to thee; and we will come
into the croplands to play with thee by night."

"Come soon!" said Father Wolf. "Oh, wise little frog, come again soon;
for we be old, thy mother and I."

"Come soon," said Mother Wolf, "little naked son of mine. For, listen,
child of man, I loved thee more than ever I loved my cubs."

"I will surely come," said Mowgli. "And when I come it will be to lay
out Shere Khan's hide upon the Council Rock. Do not forget me! Tell them
in the jungle never to forget me!"

The dawn was beginning to break when Mowgli went down the hillside
alone, to meet those mysterious things that are called men.




Hunting-Song of the Seeonee Pack

     As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
        Once, twice and again!
     And a doe leaped up, and a doe leaped up
     From the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup.
     This I, scouting alone, beheld,
        Once, twice and again!

     As the dawn was breaking the Sambhur belled
        Once, twice and again!
     And a wolf stole back, and a wolf stole back
     To carry the word to the waiting pack,
     And we sought and we found and we bayed on his track
        Once, twice and again!

     As the dawn was breaking the Wolf Pack yelled
        Once, twice and again!
     Feet in the jungle that leave no mark!

     Eyes that can see in the dark--the dark!
     Tongue--give tongue to it!  Hark!  O hark!
        Once, twice and again!




Kaa's Hunting

     His spots are the joy of the Leopard: his horns are the
        Buffalo's pride.
     Be clean, for the strength of the hunter is known by the
        gloss of his hide.
     If ye find that the Bullock can toss you, or the heavy-browed
        Sambhur can gore;
     Ye need not stop work to inform us: we knew it ten seasons
        before.
     Oppress not the cubs of the stranger, but hail them as Sister
        and Brother,
     For though they are little and fubsy, it may be the Bear is
        their mother.
     "There is none like to me!" says the Cub in the pride of his
        earliest kill;
     But the jungle is large and the Cub he is small.  Let him
        think and be still.
                                 Maxims of Baloo


All that is told here happened some time before Mowgli was turned out of
the Seeonee Wolf Pack, or revenged himself on Shere Khan the tiger. It
was in the days when Baloo was teaching him the Law of the Jungle. The
big, serious, old brown bear was delighted to have so quick a pupil,
for the young wolves will only learn as much of the Law of the Jungle
as applies to their own pack and tribe, and run away as soon as they can
repeat the Hunting Verse--"Feet that make no noise; eyes that can see in
the dark; ears that can hear the winds in their lairs, and sharp white
teeth, all these things are the marks of our brothers except Tabaqui the
Jackal and the Hyaena whom we hate." But Mowgli, as a man-cub, had to
learn a great deal more than this. Sometimes Bagheera the Black Panther
would come lounging through the jungle to see how his pet was getting
on, and would purr with his head against a tree while Mowgli recited the
day's lesson to Baloo. The boy could climb almost as well as he could
swim, and swim almost as well as he could run. So Baloo, the Teacher of
the Law, taught him the Wood and Water Laws: how to tell a rotten branch
from a sound one; how to speak politely to the wild bees when he came
upon a hive of them fifty feet above ground; what to say to Mang the
Bat when he disturbed him in the branches at midday; and how to warn the
water-snakes in the pools before he splashed down among them. None of
the Jungle People like being disturbed, and all are very ready to fly at
an intruder. Then, too, Mowgli was taught the Strangers' Hunting Call,
which must be repeated aloud till it is answered, whenever one of the
Jungle-People hunts outside his own grounds. It means, translated, "Give
me leave to hunt here because I am hungry." And the answer is, "Hunt
then for food, but not for pleasure."

All this will show you how much Mowgli had to learn by heart, and he
grew very tired of saying the same thing over a hundred times. But, as
Baloo said to Bagheera, one day when Mowgli had been cuffed and run off
in a temper, "A man's cub is a man's cub, and he must learn all the Law
of the Jungle."

"But think how small he is," said the Black Panther, who would have
spoiled Mowgli if he had had his own way. "How can his little head carry
all thy long talk?"

"Is there anything in the jungle too little to be killed? No. That is
why I teach him these things, and that is why I hit him, very softly,
when he forgets."

"Softly! What dost thou know of softness, old Iron-feet?" Bagheera
grunted. "His face is all bruised today by thy--softness. Ugh."

"Better he should be bruised from head to foot by me who love him than
that he should come to harm through ignorance," Baloo answered very
earnestly. "I am now teaching him the Master Words of the Jungle that
shall protect him with the birds and the Snake People, and all that hunt
on four feet, except his own pack. He can now claim protection, if he
will only remember the words, from all in the jungle. Is not that worth
a little beating?"

"Well, look to it then that thou dost not kill the man-cub. He is no
tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claws upon. But what are those Master
Words? I am more likely to give help than to ask it"--Bagheera stretched
out one paw and admired the steel-blue, ripping-chisel talons at the end
of it--"still I should like to know."

"I will call Mowgli and he shall say them--if he will. Come, Little
Brother!"

"My head is ringing like a bee tree," said a sullen little voice over
their heads, and Mowgli slid down a tree trunk very angry and indignant,
adding as he reached the ground: "I come for Bagheera and not for thee,
fat old Baloo!"

"That is all one to me," said Baloo, though he was hurt and grieved.
"Tell Bagheera, then, the Master Words of the Jungle that I have taught
thee this day."

"Master Words for which people?" said Mowgli, delighted to show off.
"The jungle has many tongues. I know them all."

"A little thou knowest, but not much. See, O Bagheera, they never thank
their teacher. Not one small wolfling has ever come back to thank
old Baloo for his teachings. Say the word for the Hunting-People,
then--great scholar."

"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, giving the words the Bear
accent which all the Hunting People use.

"Good. Now for the birds."

Mowgli repeated, with the Kite's whistle at the end of the sentence.

"Now for the Snake-People," said Bagheera.

The answer was a perfectly indescribable hiss, and Mowgli kicked up his
feet behind, clapped his hands together to applaud himself, and jumped
on to Bagheera's back, where he sat sideways, drumming with his heels on
the glossy skin and making the worst faces he could think of at Baloo.

"There--there! That was worth a little bruise," said the brown bear
tenderly. "Some day thou wilt remember me." Then he turned aside to
tell Bagheera how he had begged the Master Words from Hathi the Wild
Elephant, who knows all about these things, and how Hathi had taken
Mowgli down to a pool to get the Snake Word from a water-snake, because
Baloo could not pronounce it, and how Mowgli was now reasonably safe
against all accidents in the jungle, because neither snake, bird, nor
beast would hurt him.

"No one then is to be feared," Baloo wound up, patting his big furry
stomach with pride.

"Except his own tribe," said Bagheera, under his breath; and then aloud
to Mowgli, "Have a care for my ribs, Little Brother! What is all this
dancing up and down?"

Mowgli had been trying to make himself heard by pulling at Bagheera's
shoulder fur and kicking hard. When the two listened to him he was
shouting at the top of his voice, "And so I shall have a tribe of my
own, and lead them through the branches all day long."

"What is this new folly, little dreamer of dreams?" said Bagheera.

"Yes, and throw branches and dirt at old Baloo," Mowgli went on. "They
have promised me this. Ah!"

"Whoof!" Baloo's big paw scooped Mowgli off Bagheera's back, and as the
boy lay between the big fore-paws he could see the Bear was angry.

"Mowgli," said Baloo, "thou hast been talking with the Bandar-log--the
Monkey People."

Mowgli looked at Bagheera to see if the Panther was angry too, and
Bagheera's eyes were as hard as jade stones.

"Thou hast been with the Monkey People--the gray apes--the people
without a law--the eaters of everything. That is great shame."

"When Baloo hurt my head," said Mowgli (he was still on his back), "I
went away, and the gray apes came down from the trees and had pity on
me. No one else cared." He snuffled a little.

"The pity of the Monkey People!" Baloo snorted. "The stillness of the
mountain stream! The cool of the summer sun! And then, man-cub?"

"And then, and then, they gave me nuts and pleasant things to eat, and
they--they carried me in their arms up to the top of the trees and said
I was their blood brother except that I had no tail, and should be their
leader some day."

"They have no leader," said Bagheera. "They lie. They have always lied."

"They were very kind and bade me come again. Why have I never been taken
among the Monkey People? They stand on their feet as I do. They do
not hit me with their hard paws. They play all day. Let me get up! Bad
Baloo, let me up! I will play with them again."

"Listen, man-cub," said the Bear, and his voice rumbled like thunder on
a hot night. "I have taught thee all the Law of the Jungle for all the
peoples of the jungle--except the Monkey-Folk who live in the trees.
They have no law. They are outcasts. They have no speech of their own,
but use the stolen words which they overhear when they listen, and peep,
and wait up above in the branches. Their way is not our way. They are
without leaders. They have no remembrance. They boast and chatter and
pretend that they are a great people about to do great affairs in the
jungle, but the falling of a nut turns their minds to laughter and all
is forgotten. We of the jungle have no dealings with them. We do not
drink where the monkeys drink; we do not go where the monkeys go; we do
not hunt where they hunt; we do not die where they die. Hast thou ever
heard me speak of the Bandar-log till today?"

"No," said Mowgli in a whisper, for the forest was very still now Baloo
had finished.

"The Jungle-People put them out of their mouths and out of their minds.
They are very many, evil, dirty, shameless, and they desire, if they
have any fixed desire, to be noticed by the Jungle People. But we do not
notice them even when they throw nuts and filth on our heads."

He had hardly spoken when a shower of nuts and twigs spattered down
through the branches; and they could hear coughings and howlings and
angry jumpings high up in the air among the thin branches.

"The Monkey-People are forbidden," said Baloo, "forbidden to the
Jungle-People. Remember."

"Forbidden," said Bagheera, "but I still think Baloo should have warned
thee against them."

"I--I? How was I to guess he would play with such dirt. The Monkey
People! Faugh!"

A fresh shower came down on their heads and the two trotted away, taking
Mowgli with them. What Baloo had said about the monkeys was perfectly
true. They belonged to the tree-tops, and as beasts very seldom look
up, there was no occasion for the monkeys and the Jungle-People to cross
each other's path. But whenever they found a sick wolf, or a wounded
tiger, or bear, the monkeys would torment him, and would throw sticks
and nuts at any beast for fun and in the hope of being noticed. Then
they would howl and shriek senseless songs, and invite the Jungle-People
to climb up their trees and fight them, or would start furious battles
over nothing among themselves, and leave the dead monkeys where the
Jungle-People could see them. They were always just going to have a
leader, and laws and customs of their own, but they never did, because
their memories would not hold over from day to day, and so they
compromised things by making up a saying, "What the Bandar-log think now
the jungle will think later," and that comforted them a great deal. None
of the beasts could reach them, but on the other hand none of the beasts
would notice them, and that was why they were so pleased when Mowgli
came to play with them, and they heard how angry Baloo was.

They never meant to do any more--the Bandar-log never mean anything at
all; but one of them invented what seemed to him a brilliant idea, and
he told all the others that Mowgli would be a useful person to keep in
the tribe, because he could weave sticks together for protection from
the wind; so, if they caught him, they could make him teach them.
Of course Mowgli, as a woodcutter's child, inherited all sorts of
instincts, and used to make little huts of fallen branches without
thinking how he came to do it. The Monkey-People, watching in the trees,
considered his play most wonderful. This time, they said, they were
really going to have a leader and become the wisest people in the
jungle--so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them. Therefore
they followed Baloo and Bagheera and Mowgli through the jungle very
quietly till it was time for the midday nap, and Mowgli, who was
very much ashamed of himself, slept between the Panther and the Bear,
resolving to have no more to do with the Monkey People.

The next thing he remembered was feeling hands on his legs and
arms--hard, strong, little hands--and then a swash of branches in his
face, and then he was staring down through the swaying boughs as Baloo
woke the jungle with his deep cries and Bagheera bounded up the trunk
with every tooth bared. The Bandar-log howled with triumph and scuffled
away to the upper branches where Bagheera dared not follow, shouting:
"He has noticed us! Bagheera has noticed us. All the Jungle-People
admire us for our skill and our cunning." Then they began their flight;
and the flight of the Monkey-People through tree-land is one of
the things nobody can describe. They have their regular roads and
crossroads, up hills and down hills, all laid out from fifty to seventy
or a hundred feet above ground, and by these they can travel even at
night if necessary. Two of the strongest monkeys caught Mowgli under
the arms and swung off with him through the treetops, twenty feet at a
bound. Had they been alone they could have gone twice as fast, but the
boy's weight held them back. Sick and giddy as Mowgli was he could not
help enjoying the wild rush, though the glimpses of earth far down below
frightened him, and the terrible check and jerk at the end of the swing
over nothing but empty air brought his heart between his teeth. His
escort would rush him up a tree till he felt the thinnest topmost
branches crackle and bend under them, and then with a cough and a whoop
would fling themselves into the air outward and downward, and bring
up, hanging by their hands or their feet to the lower limbs of the next
tree. Sometimes he could see for miles and miles across the still green
jungle, as a man on the top of a mast can see for miles across the sea,
and then the branches and leaves would lash him across the face, and he
and his two guards would be almost down to earth again. So, bounding and
crashing and whooping and yelling, the whole tribe of Bandar-log swept
along the tree-roads with Mowgli their prisoner.

For a time he was afraid of being dropped. Then he grew angry but knew
better than to struggle, and then he began to think. The first thing was
to send back word to Baloo and Bagheera, for, at the pace the monkeys
were going, he knew his friends would be left far behind. It was useless
to look down, for he could only see the topsides of the branches, so he
stared upward and saw, far away in the blue, Rann the Kite balancing
and wheeling as he kept watch over the jungle waiting for things to die.
Rann saw that the monkeys were carrying something, and dropped a
few hundred yards to find out whether their load was good to eat. He
whistled with surprise when he saw Mowgli being dragged up to a treetop
and heard him give the Kite call for--"We be of one blood, thou and I."
The waves of the branches closed over the boy, but Chil balanced away to
the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again. "Mark
my trail!" Mowgli shouted. "Tell Baloo of the Seeonee Pack and Bagheera
of the Council Rock."

"In whose name, Brother?" Rann had never seen Mowgli before, though of
course he had heard of him.

"Mowgli, the Frog. Man-cub they call me! Mark my tra-il!"

The last words were shrieked as he was being swung through the air, but
Rann nodded and rose up till he looked no bigger than a speck of dust,
and there he hung, watching with his telescope eyes the swaying of the
treetops as Mowgli's escort whirled along.

"They never go far," he said with a chuckle. "They never do what they
set out to do. Always pecking at new things are the Bandar-log. This
time, if I have any eye-sight, they have pecked down trouble for
themselves, for Baloo is no fledgling and Bagheera can, as I know, kill
more than goats."

So he rocked on his wings, his feet gathered up under him, and waited.

Meantime, Baloo and Bagheera were furious with rage and grief. Bagheera
climbed as he had never climbed before, but the thin branches broke
beneath his weight, and he slipped down, his claws full of bark.

"Why didst thou not warn the man-cub?" he roared to poor Baloo, who had
set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtaking the monkeys. "What
was the use of half slaying him with blows if thou didst not warn him?"

"Haste! O haste! We--we may catch them yet!" Baloo panted.

"At that speed! It would not tire a wounded cow. Teacher of the
Law--cub-beater--a mile of that rolling to and fro would burst thee
open. Sit still and think! Make a plan. This is no time for chasing.
They may drop him if we follow too close."

"Arrula! Whoo! They may have dropped him already, being tired of
carrying him. Who can trust the Bandar-log? Put dead bats on my head!
Give me black bones to eat! Roll me into the hives of the wild bees
that I may be stung to death, and bury me with the Hyaena, for I am most
miserable of bears! Arulala! Wahooa! O Mowgli, Mowgli! Why did I not
warn thee against the Monkey-Folk instead of breaking thy head? Now
perhaps I may have knocked the day's lesson out of his mind, and he will
be alone in the jungle without the Master Words."

Baloo clasped his paws over his ears and rolled to and fro moaning.

"At least he gave me all the Words correctly a little time ago," said
Bagheera impatiently. "Baloo, thou hast neither memory nor respect. What
would the jungle think if I, the Black Panther, curled myself up like
Ikki the Porcupine, and howled?"

"What do I care what the jungle thinks? He may be dead by now."

"Unless and until they drop him from the branches in sport, or kill him
out of idleness, I have no fear for the man-cub. He is wise and well
taught, and above all he has the eyes that make the Jungle-People
afraid. But (and it is a great evil) he is in the power of the
Bandar-log, and they, because they live in trees, have no fear of any of
our people." Bagheera licked one forepaw thoughtfully.

"Fool that I am! Oh, fat, brown, root-digging fool that I am," said
Baloo, uncoiling himself with a jerk, "it is true what Hathi the Wild
Elephant says: `To each his own fear'; and they, the Bandar-log, fear
Kaa the Rock Snake. He can climb as well as they can. He steals the
young monkeys in the night. The whisper of his name makes their wicked
tails cold. Let us go to Kaa."

"What will he do for us? He is not of our tribe, being footless--and
with most evil eyes," said Bagheera.

"He is very old and very cunning. Above all, he is always hungry," said
Baloo hopefully. "Promise him many goats."

"He sleeps for a full month after he has once eaten. He may be asleep
now, and even were he awake what if he would rather kill his own goats?"
Bagheera, who did not know much about Kaa, was naturally suspicious.

"Then in that case, thou and I together, old hunter, might make him see
reason." Here Baloo rubbed his faded brown shoulder against the Panther,
and they went off to look for Kaa the Rock Python.

They found him stretched out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun,
admiring his beautiful new coat, for he had been in retirement for the
last ten days changing his skin, and now he was very splendid--darting
his big blunt-nosed head along the ground, and twisting the thirty feet
of his body into fantastic knots and curves, and licking his lips as he
thought of his dinner to come.

"He has not eaten," said Baloo, with a grunt of relief, as soon as
he saw the beautifully mottled brown and yellow jacket. "Be careful,
Bagheera! He is always a little blind after he has changed his skin, and
very quick to strike."

Kaa was not a poison snake--in fact he rather despised the poison snakes
as cowards--but his strength lay in his hug, and when he had once
lapped his huge coils round anybody there was no more to be said. "Good
hunting!" cried Baloo, sitting up on his haunches. Like all snakes of
his breed Kaa was rather deaf, and did not hear the call at first. Then
he curled up ready for any accident, his head lowered.

"Good hunting for us all," he answered. "Oho, Baloo, what dost thou do
here? Good hunting, Bagheera. One of us at least needs food. Is there
any news of game afoot? A doe now, or even a young buck? I am as empty
as a dried well."

"We are hunting," said Baloo carelessly. He knew that you must not hurry
Kaa. He is too big.

"Give me permission to come with you," said Kaa. "A blow more or less is
nothing to thee, Bagheera or Baloo, but I--I have to wait and wait for
days in a wood-path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a
young ape. Psshaw! The branches are not what they were when I was young.
Rotten twigs and dry boughs are they all."

"Maybe thy great weight has something to do with the matter," said
Baloo.

"I am a fair length--a fair length," said Kaa with a little pride. "But
for all that, it is the fault of this new-grown timber. I came very
near to falling on my last hunt--very near indeed--and the noise of my
slipping, for my tail was not tight wrapped around the tree, waked the
Bandar-log, and they called me most evil names."

"Footless, yellow earth-worm," said Bagheera under his whiskers, as
though he were trying to remember something.

"Sssss! Have they ever called me that?" said Kaa.

"Something of that kind it was that they shouted to us last moon, but we
never noticed them. They will say anything--even that thou hast lost all
thy teeth, and wilt not face anything bigger than a kid, because (they
are indeed shameless, these Bandar-log)--because thou art afraid of the
he-goat's horns," Bagheera went on sweetly.

Now a snake, especially a wary old python like Kaa, very seldom shows
that he is angry, but Baloo and Bagheera could see the big swallowing
muscles on either side of Kaa's throat ripple and bulge.

"The Bandar-log have shifted their grounds," he said quietly. "When I
came up into the sun today I heard them whooping among the tree-tops."

"It--it is the Bandar-log that we follow now," said Baloo, but the words
stuck in his throat, for that was the first time in his memory that one
of the Jungle-People had owned to being interested in the doings of the
monkeys.

"Beyond doubt then it is no small thing that takes two such
hunters--leaders in their own jungle I am certain--on the trail of the
Bandar-log," Kaa replied courteously, as he swelled with curiosity.

"Indeed," Baloo began, "I am no more than the old and sometimes very
foolish Teacher of the Law to the Seeonee wolf-cubs, and Bagheera
here--"

"Is Bagheera," said the Black Panther, and his jaws shut with a snap,
for he did not believe in being humble. "The trouble is this, Kaa. Those
nut-stealers and pickers of palm leaves have stolen away our man-cub of
whom thou hast perhaps heard."

"I heard some news from Ikki (his quills make him presumptuous) of a
man-thing that was entered into a wolf pack, but I did not believe. Ikki
is full of stories half heard and very badly told."

"But it is true. He is such a man-cub as never was," said Baloo. "The
best and wisest and boldest of man-cubs--my own pupil, who shall
make the name of Baloo famous through all the jungles; and besides,
I--we--love him, Kaa."

"Ts! Ts!" said Kaa, weaving his head to and fro. "I also have known what
love is. There are tales I could tell that--"

"That need a clear night when we are all well fed to praise properly,"
said Bagheera quickly. "Our man-cub is in the hands of the Bandar-log
now, and we know that of all the Jungle-People they fear Kaa alone."

"They fear me alone. They have good reason," said Kaa. "Chattering,
foolish, vain--vain, foolish, and chattering, are the monkeys. But a
man-thing in their hands is in no good luck. They grow tired of the nuts
they pick, and throw them down. They carry a branch half a day, meaning
to do great things with it, and then they snap it in two. That man-thing
is not to be envied. They called me also--`yellow fish' was it not?"

"Worm--worm--earth-worm," said Bagheera, "as well as other things which
I cannot now say for shame."

"We must remind them to speak well of their master. Aaa-ssp! We must
help their wandering memories. Now, whither went they with the cub?"

"The jungle alone knows. Toward the sunset, I believe," said Baloo. "We
had thought that thou wouldst know, Kaa."

"I? How? I take them when they come in my way, but I do not hunt the
Bandar-log, or frogs--or green scum on a water-hole, for that matter."

"Up, Up! Up, Up! Hillo! Illo! Illo, look up, Baloo of the Seeonee Wolf
Pack!"

Baloo looked up to see where the voice came from, and there was Rann the
Kite, sweeping down with the sun shining on the upturned flanges of his
wings. It was near Rann's bedtime, but he had ranged all over the jungle
looking for the Bear and had missed him in the thick foliage.

"What is it?" said Baloo.

"I have seen Mowgli among the Bandar-log. He bade me tell you. I
watched. The Bandar-log have taken him beyond the river to the monkey
city--to the Cold Lairs. They may stay there for a night, or ten nights,
or an hour. I have told the bats to watch through the dark time. That is
my message. Good hunting, all you below!"

"Full gorge and a deep sleep to you, Rann," cried Bagheera. "I will
remember thee in my next kill, and put aside the head for thee alone, O
best of kites!"

"It is nothing. It is nothing. The boy held the Master Word. I could
have done no less," and Rann circled up again to his roost.

"He has not forgotten to use his tongue," said Baloo with a chuckle of
pride. "To think of one so young remembering the Master Word for the
birds too while he was being pulled across trees!"

"It was most firmly driven into him," said Bagheera. "But I am proud of
him, and now we must go to the Cold Lairs."

They all knew where that place was, but few of the Jungle People ever
went there, because what they called the Cold Lairs was an old deserted
city, lost and buried in the jungle, and beasts seldom use a place that
men have once used. The wild boar will, but the hunting tribes do not.
Besides, the monkeys lived there as much as they could be said to live
anywhere, and no self-respecting animal would come within eyeshot of it
except in times of drought, when the half-ruined tanks and reservoirs
held a little water.

"It is half a night's journey--at full speed," said Bagheera, and Baloo
looked very serious. "I will go as fast as I can," he said anxiously.

"We dare not wait for thee. Follow, Baloo. We must go on the
quick-foot--Kaa and I."

"Feet or no feet, I can keep abreast of all thy four," said Kaa shortly.
Baloo made one effort to hurry, but had to sit down panting, and so they
left him to come on later, while Bagheera hurried forward, at the quick
panther-canter. Kaa said nothing, but, strive as Bagheera might, the
huge Rock-python held level with him. When they came to a hill stream,
Bagheera gained, because he bounded across while Kaa swam, his head and
two feet of his neck clearing the water, but on level ground Kaa made up
the distance.

"By the Broken Lock that freed me," said Bagheera, when twilight had
fallen, "thou art no slow goer!"

"I am hungry," said Kaa. "Besides, they called me speckled frog."

"Worm--earth-worm, and yellow to boot."

"All one. Let us go on," and Kaa seemed to pour himself along the
ground, finding the shortest road with his steady eyes, and keeping to
it.

In the Cold Lairs the Monkey-People were not thinking of Mowgli's
friends at all. They had brought the boy to the Lost City, and were
very much pleased with themselves for the time. Mowgli had never seen an
Indian city before, and though this was almost a heap of ruins it seemed
very wonderful and splendid. Some king had built it long ago on a little
hill. You could still trace the stone causeways that led up to the
ruined gates where the last splinters of wood hung to the worn, rusted
hinges. Trees had grown into and out of the walls; the battlements were
tumbled down and decayed, and wild creepers hung out of the windows of
the towers on the walls in bushy hanging clumps.

A great roofless palace crowned the hill, and the marble of the
courtyards and the fountains was split, and stained with red and green,
and the very cobblestones in the courtyard where the king's elephants
used to live had been thrust up and apart by grasses and young trees.
From the palace you could see the rows and rows of roofless houses that
made up the city looking like empty honeycombs filled with blackness;
the shapeless block of stone that had been an idol in the square where
four roads met; the pits and dimples at street corners where the public
wells once stood, and the shattered domes of temples with wild figs
sprouting on their sides. The monkeys called the place their city, and
pretended to despise the Jungle-People because they lived in the forest.
And yet they never knew what the buildings were made for nor how to
use them. They would sit in circles on the hall of the king's council
chamber, and scratch for fleas and pretend to be men; or they would run
in and out of the roofless houses and collect pieces of plaster and old
bricks in a corner, and forget where they had hidden them, and fight
and cry in scuffling crowds, and then break off to play up and down the
terraces of the king's garden, where they would shake the rose trees and
the oranges in sport to see the fruit and flowers fall. They explored
all the passages and dark tunnels in the palace and the hundreds of
little dark rooms, but they never remembered what they had seen and what
they had not; and so drifted about in ones and twos or crowds telling
each other that they were doing as men did. They drank at the tanks and
made the water all muddy, and then they fought over it, and then they
would all rush together in mobs and shout: "There is no one in the
jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle as the
Bandar-log." Then all would begin again till they grew tired of the city
and went back to the tree-tops, hoping the Jungle-People would notice
them.

Mowgli, who had been trained under the Law of the Jungle, did not like
or understand this kind of life. The monkeys dragged him into the Cold
Lairs late in the afternoon, and instead of going to sleep, as Mowgli
would have done after a long journey, they joined hands and danced about
and sang their foolish songs. One of the monkeys made a speech and told
his companions that Mowgli's capture marked a new thing in the history
of the Bandar-log, for Mowgli was going to show them how to weave sticks
and canes together as a protection against rain and cold. Mowgli picked
up some creepers and began to work them in and out, and the monkeys
tried to imitate; but in a very few minutes they lost interest and began
to pull their friends' tails or jump up and down on all fours, coughing.

"I wish to eat," said Mowgli. "I am a stranger in this part of the
jungle. Bring me food, or give me leave to hunt here."

Twenty or thirty monkeys bounded away to bring him nuts and wild
pawpaws. But they fell to fighting on the road, and it was too much
trouble to go back with what was left of the fruit. Mowgli was sore and
angry as well as hungry, and he roamed through the empty city giving the
Strangers' Hunting Call from time to time, but no one answered him, and
Mowgli felt that he had reached a very bad place indeed. "All that Baloo
has said about the Bandar-log is true," he thought to himself. "They
have no Law, no Hunting Call, and no leaders--nothing but foolish words
and little picking thievish hands. So if I am starved or killed here,
it will be all my own fault. But I must try to return to my own jungle.
Baloo will surely beat me, but that is better than chasing silly rose
leaves with the Bandar-log."

No sooner had he walked to the city wall than the monkeys pulled him
back, telling him that he did not know how happy he was, and pinching
him to make him grateful. He set his teeth and said nothing, but
went with the shouting monkeys to a terrace above the red sandstone
reservoirs that were half-full of rain water. There was a ruined
summer-house of white marble in the center of the terrace, built for
queens dead a hundred years ago. The domed roof had half fallen in and
blocked up the underground passage from the palace by which the
queens used to enter. But the walls were made of screens of marble
tracery--beautiful milk-white fretwork, set with agates and cornelians
and jasper and lapis lazuli, and as the moon came up behind the hill it
shone through the open work, casting shadows on the ground like black
velvet embroidery. Sore, sleepy, and hungry as he was, Mowgli could not
help laughing when the Bandar-log began, twenty at a time, to tell him
how great and wise and strong and gentle they were, and how foolish he
was to wish to leave them. "We are great. We are free. We are wonderful.
We are the most wonderful people in all the jungle! We all say so, and
so it must be true," they shouted. "Now as you are a new listener and
can carry our words back to the Jungle-People so that they may notice us
in future, we will tell you all about our most excellent selves." Mowgli
made no objection, and the monkeys gathered by hundreds and hundreds on
the terrace to listen to their own speakers singing the praises of the
Bandar-log, and whenever a speaker stopped for want of breath they would
all shout together: "This is true; we all say so." Mowgli nodded and
blinked, and said "Yes" when they asked him a question, and his head
spun with the noise. "Tabaqui the Jackal must have bitten all these
people," he said to himself, "and now they have madness. Certainly this
is dewanee, the madness. Do they never go to sleep? Now there is a cloud
coming to cover that moon. If it were only a big enough cloud I might
try to run away in the darkness. But I am tired."

That same cloud was being watched by two good friends in the ruined
ditch below the city wall, for Bagheera and Kaa, knowing well how
dangerous the Monkey-People were in large numbers, did not wish to run
any risks. The monkeys never fight unless they are a hundred to one, and
few in the jungle care for those odds.

"I will go to the west wall," Kaa whispered, "and come down swiftly with
the slope of the ground in my favor. They will not throw themselves upon
my back in their hundreds, but--"

"I know it," said Bagheera. "Would that Baloo were here, but we must do
what we can. When that cloud covers the moon I shall go to the terrace.
They hold some sort of council there over the boy."

"Good hunting," said Kaa grimly, and glided away to the west wall. That
happened to be the least ruined of any, and the big snake was delayed
awhile before he could find a way up the stones. The cloud hid the moon,
and as Mowgli wondered what would come next he heard Bagheera's light
feet on the terrace. The Black Panther had raced up the slope almost
without a sound and was striking--he knew better than to waste time in
biting--right and left among the monkeys, who were seated round Mowgli
in circles fifty and sixty deep. There was a howl of fright and rage,
and then as Bagheera tripped on the rolling kicking bodies beneath him,
a monkey shouted: "There is only one here! Kill him! Kill." A scuffling
mass of monkeys, biting, scratching, tearing, and pulling, closed over
Bagheera, while five or six laid hold of Mowgli, dragged him up the wall
of the summerhouse and pushed him through the hole of the broken dome.
A man-trained boy would have been badly bruised, for the fall was a
good fifteen feet, but Mowgli fell as Baloo had taught him to fall, and
landed on his feet.

"Stay there," shouted the monkeys, "till we have killed thy friends, and
later we will play with thee--if the Poison-People leave thee alive."

"We be of one blood, ye and I," said Mowgli, quickly giving the Snake's
Call. He could hear rustling and hissing in the rubbish all round him
and gave the Call a second time, to make sure.

"Even ssso! Down hoods all!" said half a dozen low voices (every ruin
in India becomes sooner or later a dwelling place of snakes, and the old
summerhouse was alive with cobras). "Stand still, Little Brother, for
thy feet may do us harm."

Mowgli stood as quietly as he could, peering through the open work and
listening to the furious din of the fight round the Black Panther--the
yells and chatterings and scufflings, and Bagheera's deep, hoarse cough
as he backed and bucked and twisted and plunged under the heaps of his
enemies. For the first time since he was born, Bagheera was fighting for
his life.

"Baloo must be at hand; Bagheera would not have come alone," Mowgli
thought. And then he called aloud: "To the tank, Bagheera. Roll to the
water tanks. Roll and plunge! Get to the water!"

Bagheera heard, and the cry that told him Mowgli was safe gave him new
courage. He worked his way desperately, inch by inch, straight for the
reservoirs, halting in silence. Then from the ruined wall nearest the
jungle rose up the rumbling war-shout of Baloo. The old Bear had done
his best, but he could not come before. "Bagheera," he shouted, "I am
here. I climb! I haste! Ahuwora! The stones slip under my feet! Wait my
coming, O most infamous Bandar-log!" He panted up the terrace only
to disappear to the head in a wave of monkeys, but he threw himself
squarely on his haunches, and, spreading out his forepaws, hugged as
many as he could hold, and then began to hit with a regular bat-bat-bat,
like the flipping strokes of a paddle wheel. A crash and a splash told
Mowgli that Bagheera had fought his way to the tank where the monkeys
could not follow. The Panther lay gasping for breath, his head just
out of the water, while the monkeys stood three deep on the red steps,
dancing up and down with rage, ready to spring upon him from all sides
if he came out to help Baloo. It was then that Bagheera lifted up his
dripping chin, and in despair gave the Snake's Call for protection--"We
be of one blood, ye and I"--for he believed that Kaa had turned tail
at the last minute. Even Baloo, half smothered under the monkeys on
the edge of the terrace, could not help chuckling as he heard the Black
Panther asking for help.

Kaa had only just worked his way over the west wall, landing with a
wrench that dislodged a coping stone into the ditch. He had no intention
of losing any advantage of the ground, and coiled and uncoiled himself
once or twice, to be sure that every foot of his long body was in
working order. All that while the fight with Baloo went on, and the
monkeys yelled in the tank round Bagheera, and Mang the Bat, flying to
and fro, carried the news of the great battle over the jungle, till even
Hathi the Wild Elephant trumpeted, and, far away, scattered bands of
the Monkey-Folk woke and came leaping along the tree-roads to help their
comrades in the Cold Lairs, and the noise of the fight roused all the
day birds for miles round. Then Kaa came straight, quickly, and anxious
to kill. The fighting strength of a python is in the driving blow of
his head backed by all the strength and weight of his body. If you can
imagine a lance, or a battering ram, or a hammer weighing nearly half
a ton driven by a cool, quiet mind living in the handle of it, you can
roughly imagine what Kaa was like when he fought. A python four or five
feet long can knock a man down if he hits him fairly in the chest, and
Kaa was thirty feet long, as you know. His first stroke was delivered
into the heart of the crowd round Baloo. It was sent home with shut
mouth in silence, and there was no need of a second. The monkeys
scattered with cries of--"Kaa! It is Kaa! Run! Run!"

Generations of monkeys had been scared into good behavior by the stories
their elders told them of Kaa, the night thief, who could slip along the
branches as quietly as moss grows, and steal away the strongest monkey
that ever lived; of old Kaa, who could make himself look so like a dead
branch or a rotten stump that the wisest were deceived, till the branch
caught them. Kaa was everything that the monkeys feared in the jungle,
for none of them knew the limits of his power, none of them could look
him in the face, and none had ever come alive out of his hug. And so
they ran, stammering with terror, to the walls and the roofs of the
houses, and Baloo drew a deep breath of relief. His fur was much thicker
than Bagheera's, but he had suffered sorely in the fight. Then Kaa
opened his mouth for the first time and spoke one long hissing word, and
the far-away monkeys, hurrying to the defense of the Cold Lairs, stayed
where they were, cowering, till the loaded branches bent and crackled
under them. The monkeys on the walls and the empty houses stopped
their cries, and in the stillness that fell upon the city Mowgli heard
Bagheera shaking his wet sides as he came up from the tank. Then the
clamor broke out again. The monkeys leaped higher up the walls. They
clung around the necks of the big stone idols and shrieked as they
skipped along the battlements, while Mowgli, dancing in the summerhouse,
put his eye to the screenwork and hooted owl-fashion between his front
teeth, to show his derision and contempt.

"Get the man-cub out of that trap; I can do no more," Bagheera gasped.
"Let us take the man-cub and go. They may attack again."

"They will not move till I order them. Stay you sssso!" Kaa hissed, and
the city was silent once more. "I could not come before, Brother, but I
think I heard thee call"--this was to Bagheera.

"I--I may have cried out in the battle," Bagheera answered. "Baloo, art
thou hurt?

"I am not sure that they did not pull me into a hundred little
bearlings," said Baloo, gravely shaking one leg after the other. "Wow! I
am sore. Kaa, we owe thee, I think, our lives--Bagheera and I."

"No matter. Where is the manling?"

"Here, in a trap. I cannot climb out," cried Mowgli. The curve of the
broken dome was above his head.

"Take him away. He dances like Mao the Peacock. He will crush our
young," said the cobras inside.

"Hah!" said Kaa with a chuckle, "he has friends everywhere, this
manling. Stand back, manling. And hide you, O Poison People. I break
down the wall."

Kaa looked carefully till he found a discolored crack in the marble
tracery showing a weak spot, made two or three light taps with his head
to get the distance, and then lifting up six feet of his body clear
of the ground, sent home half a dozen full-power smashing blows,
nose-first. The screen-work broke and fell away in a cloud of dust and
rubbish, and Mowgli leaped through the opening and flung himself between
Baloo and Bagheera--an arm around each big neck.

"Art thou hurt?" said Baloo, hugging him softly.

"I am sore, hungry, and not a little bruised. But, oh, they have handled
ye grievously, my Brothers! Ye bleed."

"Others also," said Bagheera, licking his lips and looking at the
monkey-dead on the terrace and round the tank.

"It is nothing, it is nothing, if thou art safe, oh, my pride of all
little frogs!" whimpered Baloo.

"Of that we shall judge later," said Bagheera, in a dry voice that
Mowgli did not at all like. "But here is Kaa to whom we owe the battle
and thou owest thy life. Thank him according to our customs, Mowgli."

Mowgli turned and saw the great Python's head swaying a foot above his
own.

"So this is the manling," said Kaa. "Very soft is his skin, and he is
not unlike the Bandar-log. Have a care, manling, that I do not mistake
thee for a monkey some twilight when I have newly changed my coat."

"We be one blood, thou and I," Mowgli answered. "I take my life from
thee tonight. My kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry, O Kaa."

"All thanks, Little Brother," said Kaa, though his eyes twinkled. "And
what may so bold a hunter kill? I ask that I may follow when next he
goes abroad."

"I kill nothing,--I am too little,--but I drive goats toward such as can
use them. When thou art empty come to me and see if I speak the truth.
I have some skill in these [he held out his hands], and if ever thou art
in a trap, I may pay the debt which I owe to thee, to Bagheera, and to
Baloo, here. Good hunting to ye all, my masters."

"Well said," growled Baloo, for Mowgli had returned thanks very
prettily. The Python dropped his head lightly for a minute on Mowgli's
shoulder. "A brave heart and a courteous tongue," said he. "They shall
carry thee far through the jungle, manling. But now go hence quickly
with thy friends. Go and sleep, for the moon sets, and what follows it
is not well that thou shouldst see."

The moon was sinking behind the hills and the lines of trembling monkeys
huddled together on the walls and battlements looked like ragged shaky
fringes of things. Baloo went down to the tank for a drink and Bagheera
began to put his fur in order, as Kaa glided out into the center of the
terrace and brought his jaws together with a ringing snap that drew all
the monkeys' eyes upon him.

"The moon sets," he said. "Is there yet light enough to see?"

From the walls came a moan like the wind in the tree-tops--"We see, O
Kaa."

"Good. Begins now the dance--the Dance of the Hunger of Kaa. Sit still
and watch."

He turned twice or thrice in a big circle, weaving his head from right
to left. Then he began making loops and figures of eight with his
body, and soft, oozy triangles that melted into squares and five-sided
figures, and coiled mounds, never resting, never hurrying, and never
stopping his low humming song. It grew darker and darker, till at last
the dragging, shifting coils disappeared, but they could hear the rustle
of the scales.

Baloo and Bagheera stood still as stone, growling in their throats,
their neck hair bristling, and Mowgli watched and wondered.

"Bandar-log," said the voice of Kaa at last, "can ye stir foot or hand
without my order? Speak!"

"Without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand, O Kaa!"

"Good! Come all one pace nearer to me."

The lines of the monkeys swayed forward helplessly, and Baloo and
Bagheera took one stiff step forward with them.

"Nearer!" hissed Kaa, and they all moved again.

Mowgli laid his hands on Baloo and Bagheera to get them away, and the
two great beasts started as though they had been waked from a dream.

"Keep thy hand on my shoulder," Bagheera whispered. "Keep it there, or I
must go back--must go back to Kaa. Aah!"

"It is only old Kaa making circles on the dust," said Mowgli. "Let us
go." And the three slipped off through a gap in the walls to the jungle.

"Whoof!" said Baloo, when he stood under the still trees again. "Never
more will I make an ally of Kaa," and he shook himself all over.

"He knows more than we," said Bagheera, trembling. "In a little time,
had I stayed, I should have walked down his throat."

"Many will walk by that road before the moon rises again," said Baloo.
"He will have good hunting--after his own fashion."

"But what was the meaning of it all?" said Mowgli, who did not know
anything of a python's powers of fascination. "I saw no more than a big
snake making foolish circles till the dark came. And his nose was all
sore. Ho! Ho!"

"Mowgli," said Bagheera angrily, "his nose was sore on thy account, as
my ears and sides and paws, and Baloo's neck and shoulders are bitten
on thy account. Neither Baloo nor Bagheera will be able to hunt with
pleasure for many days."

"It is nothing," said Baloo; "we have the man-cub again."

"True, but he has cost us heavily in time which might have been spent in
good hunting, in wounds, in hair--I am half plucked along my back--and
last of all, in honor. For, remember, Mowgli, I, who am the Black
Panther, was forced to call upon Kaa for protection, and Baloo and I
were both made stupid as little birds by the Hunger Dance. All this,
man-cub, came of thy playing with the Bandar-log."

"True, it is true," said Mowgli sorrowfully. "I am an evil man-cub, and
my stomach is sad in me."

"Mf! What says the Law of the Jungle, Baloo?"

Baloo did not wish to bring Mowgli into any more trouble, but he could
not tamper with the Law, so he mumbled: "Sorrow never stays punishment.
But remember, Bagheera, he is very little."

"I will remember. But he has done mischief, and blows must be dealt now.
Mowgli, hast thou anything to say?"

"Nothing. I did wrong. Baloo and thou are wounded. It is just."

Bagheera gave him half a dozen love-taps from a panther's point of
view (they would hardly have waked one of his own cubs), but for a
seven-year-old boy they amounted to as severe a beating as you could
wish to avoid. When it was all over Mowgli sneezed, and picked himself
up without a word.

"Now," said Bagheera, "jump on my back, Little Brother, and we will go
home."

One of the beauties of Jungle Law is that punishment settles all scores.
There is no nagging afterward.

Mowgli laid his head down on Bagheera's back and slept so deeply that he
never waked when he was put down in the home-cave.




Road-Song of the Bandar-Log

     Here we go in a flung festoon,
     Half-way up to the jealous moon!
     Don't you envy our pranceful bands?
     Don't you wish you had extra hands?
     Wouldn't you like if your tails were--so--
     Curved in the shape of a Cupid's bow?
        Now you're angry, but--never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!

     Here we sit in a branchy row,
     Thinking of beautiful things we know;
     Dreaming of deeds that we mean to do,
     All complete, in a minute or two--
     Something noble and wise and good,
     Done by merely wishing we could.
        We've forgotten, but--never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!

     All the talk we ever have heard
     Uttered by bat or beast or bird--
     Hide or fin or scale or feather--
     Jabber it quickly and all together!
     Excellent!  Wonderful!  Once again!

     Now we are talking just like men!
        Let's pretend we are ... never mind,
        Brother, thy tail hangs down behind!
        This is the way of the Monkey-kind.

     Then join our leaping lines that scumfish through the pines,
     That rocket by where, light and high, the wild grape swings.
     By the rubbish in our wake, and the noble noise we make,
     Be sure, be sure, we're going to do some splendid things!




"Tiger! Tiger!"

     What of the hunting, hunter bold?
        Brother, the watch was long and cold.
     What of the quarry ye went to kill?
        Brother, he crops in the jungle still.
     Where is the power that made your pride?
        Brother, it ebbs from my flank and side.
     Where is the haste that ye hurry by?
        Brother, I go to my lair--to die.

Now we must go back to the first tale. When Mowgli left the wolf's cave
after the fight with the Pack at the Council Rock, he went down to the
plowed lands where the villagers lived, but he would not stop there
because it was too near to the jungle, and he knew that he had made at
least one bad enemy at the Council. So he hurried on, keeping to
the rough road that ran down the valley, and followed it at a steady
jog-trot for nearly twenty miles, till he came to a country that he
did not know. The valley opened out into a great plain dotted over with
rocks and cut up by ravines. At one end stood a little village, and at
the other the thick jungle came down in a sweep to the grazing-grounds,
and stopped there as though it had been cut off with a hoe. All over the
plain, cattle and buffaloes were grazing, and when the little boys in
charge of the herds saw Mowgli they shouted and ran away, and the yellow
pariah dogs that hang about every Indian village barked. Mowgli walked
on, for he was feeling hungry, and when he came to the village gate he
saw the big thorn-bush that was drawn up before the gate at twilight,
pushed to one side.

"Umph!" he said, for he had come across more than one such barricade in
his night rambles after things to eat. "So men are afraid of the People
of the Jungle here also." He sat down by the gate, and when a man came
out he stood up, opened his mouth, and pointed down it to show that
he wanted food. The man stared, and ran back up the one street of the
village shouting for the priest, who was a big, fat man dressed in
white, with a red and yellow mark on his forehead. The priest came to
the gate, and with him at least a hundred people, who stared and talked
and shouted and pointed at Mowgli.

"They have no manners, these Men Folk," said Mowgli to himself. "Only
the gray ape would behave as they do." So he threw back his long hair
and frowned at the crowd.

"What is there to be afraid of?" said the priest. "Look at the marks on
his arms and legs. They are the bites of wolves. He is but a wolf-child
run away from the jungle."

Of course, in playing together, the cubs had often nipped Mowgli harder
than they intended, and there were white scars all over his arms and
legs. But he would have been the last person in the world to call these
bites, for he knew what real biting meant.

"Arre! Arre!" said two or three women together. "To be bitten by wolves,
poor child! He is a handsome boy. He has eyes like red fire. By my
honor, Messua, he is not unlike thy boy that was taken by the tiger."

"Let me look," said a woman with heavy copper rings on her wrists and
ankles, and she peered at Mowgli under the palm of her hand. "Indeed he
is not. He is thinner, but he has the very look of my boy."

The priest was a clever man, and he knew that Messua was wife to the
richest villager in the place. So he looked up at the sky for a minute
and said solemnly: "What the jungle has taken the jungle has restored.
Take the boy into thy house, my sister, and forget not to honor the
priest who sees so far into the lives of men."

"By the Bull that bought me," said Mowgli to himself, "but all this
talking is like another looking-over by the Pack! Well, if I am a man, a
man I must become."

The crowd parted as the woman beckoned Mowgli to her hut, where there
was a red lacquered bedstead, a great earthen grain chest with funny
raised patterns on it, half a dozen copper cooking pots, an image of a
Hindu god in a little alcove, and on the wall a real looking glass, such
as they sell at the country fairs.

She gave him a long drink of milk and some bread, and then she laid her
hand on his head and looked into his eyes; for she thought perhaps that
he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger had
taken him. So she said, "Nathoo, O Nathoo!" Mowgli did not show that he
knew the name. "Dost thou not remember the day when I gave thee thy new
shoes?" She touched his foot, and it was almost as hard as horn. "No,"
she said sorrowfully, "those feet have never worn shoes, but thou art
very like my Nathoo, and thou shalt be my son."

Mowgli was uneasy, because he had never been under a roof before. But as
he looked at the thatch, he saw that he could tear it out any time if he
wanted to get away, and that the window had no fastenings. "What is the
good of a man," he said to himself at last, "if he does not understand
man's talk? Now I am as silly and dumb as a man would be with us in the
jungle. I must speak their talk."

It was not for fun that he had learned while he was with the wolves to
imitate the challenge of bucks in the jungle and the grunt of the little
wild pig. So, as soon as Messua pronounced a word Mowgli would imitate
it almost perfectly, and before dark he had learned the names of many
things in the hut.

There was a difficulty at bedtime, because Mowgli would not sleep under
anything that looked so like a panther trap as that hut, and when they
shut the door he went through the window. "Give him his will," said
Messua's husband. "Remember he can never till now have slept on a bed.
If he is indeed sent in the place of our son he will not run away."

So Mowgli stretched himself in some long, clean grass at the edge of
the field, but before he had closed his eyes a soft gray nose poked him
under the chin.

"Phew!" said Gray Brother (he was the eldest of Mother Wolf's cubs).
"This is a poor reward for following thee twenty miles. Thou smellest
of wood smoke and cattle--altogether like a man already. Wake, Little
Brother; I bring news."

"Are all well in the jungle?" said Mowgli, hugging him.

"All except the wolves that were burned with the Red Flower. Now,
listen. Shere Khan has gone away to hunt far off till his coat grows
again, for he is badly singed. When he returns he swears that he will
lay thy bones in the Waingunga."

"There are two words to that. I also have made a little promise. But
news is always good. I am tired to-night,--very tired with new things,
Gray Brother,--but bring me the news always."

"Thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf? Men will not make thee
forget?" said Gray Brother anxiously.

"Never. I will always remember that I love thee and all in our cave. But
also I will always remember that I have been cast out of the Pack."

"And that thou mayest be cast out of another pack. Men are only men,
Little Brother, and their talk is like the talk of frogs in a pond. When
I come down here again, I will wait for thee in the bamboos at the edge
of the grazing-ground."

For three months after that night Mowgli hardly ever left the village
gate, he was so busy learning the ways and customs of men. First he had
to wear a cloth round him, which annoyed him horribly; and then he had
to learn about money, which he did not in the least understand, and
about plowing, of which he did not see the use. Then the little children
in the village made him very angry. Luckily, the Law of the Jungle had
taught him to keep his temper, for in the jungle life and food depend on
keeping your temper; but when they made fun of him because he would not
play games or fly kites, or because he mispronounced some word, only the
knowledge that it was unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cubs kept him
from picking them up and breaking them in two.

He did not know his own strength in the least. In the jungle he knew he
was weak compared with the beasts, but in the village people said that
he was as strong as a bull.

And Mowgli had not the faintest idea of the difference that caste makes
between man and man. When the potter's donkey slipped in the clay pit,
Mowgli hauled it out by the tail, and helped to stack the pots for their
journey to the market at Khanhiwara. That was very shocking, too, for
the potter is a low-caste man, and his donkey is worse. When the priest
scolded him, Mowgli threatened to put him on the donkey too, and the
priest told Messua's husband that Mowgli had better be set to work as
soon as possible; and the village head-man told Mowgli that he would
have to go out with the buffaloes next day, and herd them while they
grazed. No one was more pleased than Mowgli; and that night, because he
had been appointed a servant of the village, as it were, he went off
to a circle that met every evening on a masonry platform under a great
fig-tree. It was the village club, and the head-man and the watchman and
the barber, who knew all the gossip of the village, and old Buldeo, the
village hunter, who had a Tower musket, met and smoked. The monkeys
sat and talked in the upper branches, and there was a hole under the
platform where a cobra lived, and he had his little platter of milk
every night because he was sacred; and the old men sat around the tree
and talked, and pulled at the big huqas (the water-pipes) till far into
the night. They told wonderful tales of gods and men and ghosts; and
Buldeo told even more wonderful ones of the ways of beasts in the
jungle, till the eyes of the children sitting outside the circle bulged
out of their heads. Most of the tales were about animals, for the jungle
was always at their door. The deer and the wild pig grubbed up their
crops, and now and again the tiger carried off a man at twilight, within
sight of the village gates.

Mowgli, who naturally knew something about what they were talking of,
had to cover his face not to show that he was laughing, while Buldeo,
the Tower musket across his knees, climbed on from one wonderful story
to another, and Mowgli's shoulders shook.

Buldeo was explaining how the tiger that had carried away Messua's son
was a ghost-tiger, and his body was inhabited by the ghost of a wicked,
old money-lender, who had died some years ago. "And I know that this is
true," he said, "because Purun Dass always limped from the blow that he
got in a riot when his account books were burned, and the tiger that I
speak of he limps, too, for the tracks of his pads are unequal."

"True, true, that must be the truth," said the gray-beards, nodding
together.

"Are all these tales such cobwebs and moon talk?" said Mowgli. "That
tiger limps because he was born lame, as everyone knows. To talk of the
soul of a money-lender in a beast that never had the courage of a jackal
is child's talk."

Buldeo was speechless with surprise for a moment, and the head-man
stared.

"Oho! It is the jungle brat, is it?" said Buldeo. "If thou art so
wise, better bring his hide to Khanhiwara, for the Government has set
a hundred rupees on his life. Better still, talk not when thy elders
speak."

Mowgli rose to go. "All the evening I have lain here listening," he
called back over his shoulder, "and, except once or twice, Buldeo has
not said one word of truth concerning the jungle, which is at his very
doors. How, then, shall I believe the tales of ghosts and gods and
goblins which he says he has seen?"

"It is full time that boy went to herding," said the head-man, while
Buldeo puffed and snorted at Mowgli's impertinence.

The custom of most Indian villages is for a few boys to take the cattle
and buffaloes out to graze in the early morning, and bring them back
at night. The very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow
themselves to be banged and bullied and shouted at by children that
hardly come up to their noses. So long as the boys keep with the herds
they are safe, for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle. But
if they straggle to pick flowers or hunt lizards, they are sometimes
carried off. Mowgli went through the village street in the dawn, sitting
on the back of Rama, the great herd bull. The slaty-blue buffaloes,
with their long, backward-sweeping horns and savage eyes, rose out their
byres, one by one, and followed him, and Mowgli made it very clear to
the children with him that he was the master. He beat the buffaloes with
a long, polished bamboo, and told Kamya, one of the boys, to graze the
cattle by themselves, while he went on with the buffaloes, and to be
very careful not to stray away from the herd.

An Indian grazing ground is all rocks and scrub and tussocks and little
ravines, among which the herds scatter and disappear. The buffaloes
generally keep to the pools and muddy places, where they lie wallowing
or basking in the warm mud for hours. Mowgli drove them on to the edge
of the plain where the Waingunga came out of the jungle; then he dropped
from Rama's neck, trotted off to a bamboo clump, and found Gray Brother.
"Ah," said Gray Brother, "I have waited here very many days. What is the
meaning of this cattle-herding work?"

"It is an order," said Mowgli. "I am a village herd for a while. What
news of Shere Khan?"

"He has come back to this country, and has waited here a long time for
thee. Now he has gone off again, for the game is scarce. But he means to
kill thee."

"Very good," said Mowgli. "So long as he is away do thou or one of the
four brothers sit on that rock, so that I can see thee as I come out of
the village. When he comes back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak
tree in the center of the plain. We need not walk into Shere Khan's
mouth."

Then Mowgli picked out a shady place, and lay down and slept while
the buffaloes grazed round him. Herding in India is one of the laziest
things in the world. The cattle move and crunch, and lie down, and move
on again, and they do not even low. They only grunt, and the buffaloes
very seldom say anything, but get down into the muddy pools one after
another, and work their way into the mud till only their noses and
staring china-blue eyes show above the surface, and then they lie like
logs. The sun makes the rocks dance in the heat, and the herd children
hear one kite (never any more) whistling almost out of sight overhead,
and they know that if they died, or a cow died, that kite would sweep
down, and the next kite miles away would see him drop and follow, and
the next, and the next, and almost before they were dead there would be
a score of hungry kites come out of nowhere. Then they sleep and
wake and sleep again, and weave little baskets of dried grass and put
grasshoppers in them; or catch two praying mantises and make them fight;
or string a necklace of red and black jungle nuts; or watch a lizard
basking on a rock, or a snake hunting a frog near the wallows. Then they
sing long, long songs with odd native quavers at the end of them, and
the day seems longer than most people's whole lives, and perhaps they
make a mud castle with mud figures of men and horses and buffaloes, and
put reeds into the men's hands, and pretend that they are kings and the
figures are their armies, or that they are gods to be worshiped. Then
evening comes and the children call, and the buffaloes lumber up out of
the sticky mud with noises like gunshots going off one after the other,
and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkling village
lights.

Day after day Mowgli would lead the buffaloes out to their wallows, and
day after day he would see Gray Brother's back a mile and a half away
across the plain (so he knew that Shere Khan had not come back), and day
after day he would lie on the grass listening to the noises round him,
and dreaming of old days in the jungle. If Shere Khan had made a false
step with his lame paw up in the jungles by the Waingunga, Mowgli would
have heard him in those long, still mornings.

At last a day came when he did not see Gray Brother at the signal place,
and he laughed and headed the buffaloes for the ravine by the dhk tree,
which was all covered with golden-red flowers. There sat Gray Brother,
every bristle on his back lifted.

"He has hidden for a month to throw thee off thy guard. He crossed the
ranges last night with Tabaqui, hot-foot on thy trail," said the Wolf,
panting.

Mowgli frowned. "I am not afraid of Shere Khan, but Tabaqui is very
cunning."

"Have no fear," said Gray Brother, licking his lips a little. "I met
Tabaqui in the dawn. Now he is telling all his wisdom to the kites, but
he told me everything before I broke his back. Shere Khan's plan is to
wait for thee at the village gate this evening--for thee and for no one
else. He is lying up now, in the big dry ravine of the Waingunga."

"Has he eaten today, or does he hunt empty?" said Mowgli, for the answer
meant life and death to him.

"He killed at dawn,--a pig,--and he has drunk too. Remember, Shere Khan
could never fast, even for the sake of revenge."

"Oh! Fool, fool! What a cub's cub it is! Eaten and drunk too, and he
thinks that I shall wait till he has slept! Now, where does he lie up?
If there were but ten of us we might pull him down as he lies. These
buffaloes will not charge unless they wind him, and I cannot speak their
language. Can we get behind his track so that they may smell it?"

"He swam far down the Waingunga to cut that off," said Gray Brother.

"Tabaqui told him that, I know. He would never have thought of it
alone." Mowgli stood with his finger in his mouth, thinking. "The big
ravine of the Waingunga. That opens out on the plain not half a mile
from here. I can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of
the ravine and then sweep down--but he would slink out at the foot. We
must block that end. Gray Brother, canst thou cut the herd in two for
me?"

"Not I, perhaps--but I have brought a wise helper." Gray Brother trotted
off and dropped into a hole. Then there lifted up a huge gray head that
Mowgli knew well, and the hot air was filled with the most desolate cry
of all the jungle--the hunting howl of a wolf at midday.

"Akela! Akela!" said Mowgli, clapping his hands. "I might have known
that thou wouldst not forget me. We have a big work in hand. Cut the
herd in two, Akela. Keep the cows and calves together, and the bulls and
the plow buffaloes by themselves."

The two wolves ran, ladies'-chain fashion, in and out of the herd, which
snorted and threw up its head, and separated into two clumps. In one,
the cow-buffaloes stood with their calves in the center, and glared
and pawed, ready, if a wolf would only stay still, to charge down and
trample the life out of him. In the other, the bulls and the young bulls
snorted and stamped, but though they looked more imposing they were much
less dangerous, for they had no calves to protect. No six men could have
divided the herd so neatly.

"What orders!" panted Akela. "They are trying to join again."

Mowgli slipped on to Rama's back. "Drive the bulls away to the left,
Akela. Gray Brother, when we are gone, hold the cows together, and drive
them into the foot of the ravine."

"How far?" said Gray Brother, panting and snapping.

"Till the sides are higher than Shere Khan can jump," shouted Mowgli.
"Keep them there till we come down." The bulls swept off as Akela bayed,
and Gray Brother stopped in front of the cows. They charged down on him,
and he ran just before them to the foot of the ravine, as Akela drove
the bulls far to the left.

"Well done! Another charge and they are fairly started. Careful,
now--careful, Akela. A snap too much and the bulls will charge. Hujah!
This is wilder work than driving black-buck. Didst thou think these
creatures could move so swiftly?" Mowgli called.

"I have--have hunted these too in my time," gasped Akela in the dust.
"Shall I turn them into the jungle?"

"Ay! Turn. Swiftly turn them! Rama is mad with rage. Oh, if I could only
tell him what I need of him to-day."

The bulls were turned, to the right this time, and crashed into the
standing thicket. The other herd children, watching with the cattle half
a mile away, hurried to the village as fast as their legs could carry
them, crying that the buffaloes had gone mad and run away.

But Mowgli's plan was simple enough. All he wanted to do was to make a
big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine, and then take the
bulls down it and catch Shere Khan between the bulls and the cows; for
he knew that after a meal and a full drink Shere Khan would not be in
any condition to fight or to clamber up the sides of the ravine. He was
soothing the buffaloes now by voice, and Akela had dropped far to the
rear, only whimpering once or twice to hurry the rear-guard. It was a
long, long circle, for they did not wish to get too near the ravine and
give Shere Khan warning. At last Mowgli rounded up the bewildered herd
at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that sloped steeply down to
the ravine itself. From that height you could see across the tops of the
trees down to the plain below; but what Mowgli looked at was the sides
of the ravine, and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they
ran nearly straight up and down, while the vines and creepers that hung
over them would give no foothold to a tiger who wanted to get out.

"Let them breathe, Akela," he said, holding up his hand. "They have not
winded him yet. Let them breathe. I must tell Shere Khan who comes. We
have him in the trap."

He put his hands to his mouth and shouted down the ravine--it was almost
like shouting down a tunnel--and the echoes jumped from rock to rock.

After a long time there came back the drawling, sleepy snarl of a
full-fed tiger just wakened.

"Who calls?" said Shere Khan, and a splendid peacock fluttered up out of
the ravine screeching.

"I, Mowgli. Cattle thief, it is time to come to the Council Rock!
Down--hurry them down, Akela! Down, Rama, down!"

The herd paused for an instant at the edge of the slope, but Akela gave
tongue in the full hunting-yell, and they pitched over one after the
other, just as steamers shoot rapids, the sand and stones spurting up
round them. Once started, there was no chance of stopping, and before
they were fairly in the bed of the ravine Rama winded Shere Khan and
bellowed.

"Ha! Ha!" said Mowgli, on his back. "Now thou knowest!" and the torrent
of black horns, foaming muzzles, and staring eyes whirled down the
ravine just as boulders go down in floodtime; the weaker buffaloes being
shouldered out to the sides of the ravine where they tore through the
creepers. They knew what the business was before them--the terrible
charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand.
Shere Khan heard the thunder of their hoofs, picked himself up, and
lumbered down the ravine, looking from side to side for some way of
escape, but the walls of the ravine were straight and he had to hold on,
heavy with his dinner and his drink, willing to do anything rather than
fight. The herd splashed through the pool he had just left, bellowing
till the narrow cut rang. Mowgli heard an answering bellow from the foot
of the ravine, saw Shere Khan turn (the tiger knew if the worst came
to the worst it was better to meet the bulls than the cows with their
calves), and then Rama tripped, stumbled, and went on again over
something soft, and, with the bulls at his heels, crashed full into the
other herd, while the weaker buffaloes were lifted clean off their feet
by the shock of the meeting. That charge carried both herds out into the
plain, goring and stamping and snorting. Mowgli watched his time, and
slipped off Rama's neck, laying about him right and left with his stick.

"Quick, Akela! Break them up. Scatter them, or they will be fighting one
another. Drive them away, Akela. Hai, Rama! Hai, hai, hai! my children.
Softly now, softly! It is all over."

Akela and Gray Brother ran to and fro nipping the buffaloes' legs,
and though the herd wheeled once to charge up the ravine again, Mowgli
managed to turn Rama, and the others followed him to the wallows.

Shere Khan needed no more trampling. He was dead, and the kites were
coming for him already.

"Brothers, that was a dog's death," said Mowgli, feeling for the knife
he always carried in a sheath round his neck now that he lived with men.
"But he would never have shown fight. His hide will look well on the
Council Rock. We must get to work swiftly."

A boy trained among men would never have dreamed of skinning a ten-foot
tiger alone, but Mowgli knew better than anyone else how an animal's
skin is fitted on, and how it can be taken off. But it was hard work,
and Mowgli slashed and tore and grunted for an hour, while the wolves
lolled out their tongues, or came forward and tugged as he ordered them.
Presently a hand fell on his shoulder, and looking up he saw Buldeo with
the Tower musket. The children had told the village about the buffalo
stampede, and Buldeo went out angrily, only too anxious to correct
Mowgli for not taking better care of the herd. The wolves dropped out of
sight as soon as they saw the man coming.

"What is this folly?" said Buldeo angrily. "To think that thou canst
skin a tiger! Where did the buffaloes kill him? It is the Lame Tiger
too, and there is a hundred rupees on his head. Well, well, we will
overlook thy letting the herd run off, and perhaps I will give thee one
of the rupees of the reward when I have taken the skin to Khanhiwara."
He fumbled in his waist cloth for flint and steel, and stooped down to
singe Shere Khan's whiskers. Most native hunters always singe a tiger's
whiskers to prevent his ghost from haunting them.

"Hum!" said Mowgli, half to himself as he ripped back the skin of a
forepaw. "So thou wilt take the hide to Khanhiwara for the reward, and
perhaps give me one rupee? Now it is in my mind that I need the skin for
my own use. Heh! Old man, take away that fire!"

"What talk is this to the chief hunter of the village? Thy luck and the
stupidity of thy buffaloes have helped thee to this kill. The tiger has
just fed, or he would have gone twenty miles by this time. Thou canst
not even skin him properly, little beggar brat, and forsooth I, Buldeo,
must be told not to singe his whiskers. Mowgli, I will not give thee one
anna of the reward, but only a very big beating. Leave the carcass!"

"By the Bull that bought me," said Mowgli, who was trying to get at the
shoulder, "must I stay babbling to an old ape all noon? Here, Akela,
this man plagues me."

Buldeo, who was still stooping over Shere Khan's head, found himself
sprawling on the grass, with a gray wolf standing over him, while Mowgli
went on skinning as though he were alone in all India.

"Ye-es," he said, between his teeth. "Thou art altogether right, Buldeo.
Thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward. There is an old war
between this lame tiger and myself--a very old war, and--I have won."

To do Buldeo justice, if he had been ten years younger he would have
taken his chance with Akela had he met the wolf in the woods, but a wolf
who obeyed the orders of this boy who had private wars with man-eating
tigers was not a common animal. It was sorcery, magic of the worst kind,
thought Buldeo, and he wondered whether the amulet round his neck would
protect him. He lay as still as still, expecting every minute to see
Mowgli turn into a tiger too.

"Maharaj! Great King," he said at last in a husky whisper.

"Yes," said Mowgli, without turning his head, chuckling a little.

"I am an old man. I did not know that thou wast anything more than a
herdsboy. May I rise up and go away, or will thy servant tear me to
pieces?"

"Go, and peace go with thee. Only, another time do not meddle with my
game. Let him go, Akela."

Buldeo hobbled away to the village as fast as he could, looking back
over his shoulder in case Mowgli should change into something terrible.
When he got to the village he told a tale of magic and enchantment and
sorcery that made the priest look very grave.

Mowgli went on with his work, but it was nearly twilight before he and
the wolves had drawn the great gay skin clear of the body.

"Now we must hide this and take the buffaloes home! Help me to herd
them, Akela."

The herd rounded up in the misty twilight, and when they got near the
village Mowgli saw lights, and heard the conches and bells in the temple
blowing and banging. Half the village seemed to be waiting for him
by the gate. "That is because I have killed Shere Khan," he said
to himself. But a shower of stones whistled about his ears, and the
villagers shouted: "Sorcerer! Wolf's brat! Jungle demon! Go away! Get
hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again. Shoot,
Buldeo, shoot!"

The old Tower musket went off with a bang, and a young buffalo bellowed
in pain.

"More sorcery!" shouted the villagers. "He can turn bullets. Buldeo,
that was thy buffalo."

"Now what is this?" said Mowgli, bewildered, as the stones flew thicker.

"They are not unlike the Pack, these brothers of thine," said Akela,
sitting down composedly. "It is in my head that, if bullets mean
anything, they would cast thee out."

"Wolf! Wolf's cub! Go away!" shouted the priest, waving a sprig of the
sacred tulsi plant.

"Again? Last time it was because I was a man. This time it is because I
am a wolf. Let us go, Akela."

A woman--it was Messua--ran across to the herd, and cried: "Oh, my son,
my son! They say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast
at will. I do not believe, but go away or they will kill thee. Buldeo
says thou art a wizard, but I know thou hast avenged Nathoo's death."

"Come back, Messua!" shouted the crowd. "Come back, or we will stone
thee."

Mowgli laughed a little short ugly laugh, for a stone had hit him in
the mouth. "Run back, Messua. This is one of the foolish tales they tell
under the big tree at dusk. I have at least paid for thy son's life.
Farewell; and run quickly, for I shall send the herd in more swiftly
than their brickbats. I am no wizard, Messua. Farewell!"

"Now, once more, Akela," he cried. "Bring the herd in."

The buffaloes were anxious enough to get to the village. They hardly
needed Akela's yell, but charged through the gate like a whirlwind,
scattering the crowd right and left.

"Keep count!" shouted Mowgli scornfully. "It may be that I have stolen
one of them. Keep count, for I will do your herding no more. Fare you
well, children of men, and thank Messua that I do not come in with my
wolves and hunt you up and down your street."

He turned on his heel and walked away with the Lone Wolf, and as he
looked up at the stars he felt happy. "No more sleeping in traps for me,
Akela. Let us get Shere Khan's skin and go away. No, we will not hurt
the village, for Messua was kind to me."

When the moon rose over the plain, making it look all milky, the
horrified villagers saw Mowgli, with two wolves at his heels and a
bundle on his head, trotting across at the steady wolf's trot that eats
up the long miles like fire. Then they banged the temple bells and blew
the conches louder than ever. And Messua cried, and Buldeo embroidered
the story of his adventures in the jungle, till he ended by saying that
Akela stood up on his hind legs and talked like a man.

The moon was just going down when Mowgli and the two wolves came to the
hill of the Council Rock, and they stopped at Mother Wolf's cave.

"They have cast me out from the Man-Pack, Mother," shouted Mowgli, "but
I come with the hide of Shere Khan to keep my word."

Mother Wolf walked stiffly from the cave with the cubs behind her, and
her eyes glowed as she saw the skin.

"I told him on that day, when he crammed his head and shoulders into
this cave, hunting for thy life, Little Frog--I told him that the hunter
would be the hunted. It is well done."

"Little Brother, it is well done," said a deep voice in the thicket.
"We were lonely in the jungle without thee, and Bagheera came running
to Mowgli's bare feet. They clambered up the Council Rock together, and
Mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where Akela used to sit,
and pegged it down with four slivers of bamboo, and Akela lay down upon
it, and called the old call to the Council, 'Look--look well, O Wolves,'
exactly as he had called when Mowgli was first brought there."

Ever since Akela had been deposed, the Pack had been without a leader,
hunting and fighting at their own pleasure. But they answered the call
from habit; and some of them were lame from the traps they had fallen
into, and some limped from shot wounds, and some were mangy from eating
bad food, and many were missing. But they came to the Council Rock, all
that were left of them, and saw Shere Khan's striped hide on the rock,
and the huge claws dangling at the end of the empty dangling feet. It
was then that Mowgli made up a song that came up into his throat all
by itself, and he shouted it aloud, leaping up and down on the rattling
skin, and beating time with his heels till he had no more breath left,
while Gray Brother and Akela howled between the verses.

"Look well, O Wolves. Have I kept my word?" said Mowgli. And the wolves
bayed "Yes," and one tattered wolf howled:

"Lead us again, O Akela. Lead us again, O Man-cub, for we be sick of
this lawlessness, and we would be the Free People once more."

"Nay," purred Bagheera, "that may not be. When ye are full-fed, the
madness may come upon you again. Not for nothing are ye called the Free
People. Ye fought for freedom, and it is yours. Eat it, O Wolves."

"Man-Pack and Wolf-Pack have cast me out," said Mowgli. "Now I will hunt
alone in the jungle."

"And we will hunt with thee," said the four cubs.

So Mowgli went away and hunted with the four cubs in the jungle from
that day on. But he was not always alone, because, years afterward, he
became a man and married.

But that is a story for grown-ups.




Mowgli's Song

     THAT HE SANG AT THE COUNCIL ROCK WHEN HE
     DANCED ON SHERE KHAN'S HIDE

     The Song of Mowgli--I, Mowgli, am singing.  Let the jungle
        listen to the things I have done.

     Shere Khan said he would kill--would kill!  At the gates in the
        twilight he would kill Mowgli, the Frog!

     He ate and he drank.  Drink deep, Shere Khan, for when wilt thou
        drink again?  Sleep and dream of the kill.

     I am alone on the grazing-grounds.  Gray Brother, come to me!
        Come to me, Lone Wolf, for there is big game afoot!

     Bring up the great bull buffaloes, the blue-skinned herd bulls
        with the angry eyes.  Drive them to and fro as I order.

     Sleepest thou still, Shere Khan?  Wake, oh, wake!  Here come I,
        and the bulls are behind.

     Rama, the King of the Buffaloes, stamped with his foot.  Waters of
        the Waingunga, whither went Shere Khan?

     He is not Ikki to dig holes, nor Mao, the Peacock, that he should
        fly.  He is not Mang the Bat, to hang in the branches.  Little
        bamboos that creak together, tell me where he ran?

     Ow!  He is there.  Ahoo!  He is there.  Under the feet of Rama
        lies the Lame One!  Up, Shere Khan!

     Up and kill!  Here is meat; break the necks of the bulls!

     Hsh!  He is asleep.  We will not wake him, for his strength is
        very great.  The kites have come down to see it.  The black
        ants have come up to know it.  There is a great assembly in his
        honor.

     Alala!  I have no cloth to wrap me.  The kites will see that I am
        naked.  I am ashamed to meet all these people.

     Lend me thy coat, Shere Khan.  Lend me thy gay striped coat that I
        may go to the Council Rock.

     By the Bull that bought me I made a promise--a little promise.
        Only thy coat is lacking before I keep my word.

     With the knife, with the knife that men use, with the knife of the
        hunter, I will stoop down for my gift.

     Waters of the Waingunga, Shere Khan gives me his coat for the love
        that he bears me.  Pull, Gray Brother!  Pull, Akela!  Heavy is
        the hide of Shere Khan.

     The Man Pack are angry.  They throw stones and talk child's talk.
        My mouth is bleeding.  Let me run away.

     Through the night, through the hot night, run swiftly with me, my
        brothers.  We will leave the lights of the village and go to
        the low moon.

     Waters of the Waingunga, the Man-Pack have cast me out.  I did
        them no harm, but they were afraid of me.  Why?

     Wolf Pack, ye have cast me out too.  The jungle is shut to me and
        the village gates are shut.  Why?

     As Mang flies between the beasts and birds, so fly I between the
        village and the jungle.  Why?

     I dance on the hide of Shere Khan, but my heart is very heavy.  My
        mouth is cut and wounded with the stones from the village, but
        my heart is very light, because I have come back to the jungle.
        Why?

     These two things fight together in me as the snakes fight in the
        spring.  The water comes out of my eyes; yet I laugh while it
        falls.  Why?

     I am two Mowglis, but the hide of Shere Khan is under my feet.

     All the jungle knows that I have killed Shere Khan.  Look--look
        well, O Wolves!

     Ahae!  My heart is heavy with the things that I do not understand.




The White Seal

     Oh! hush thee, my baby, the night is behind us,
        And black are the waters that sparkled so green.
     The moon, o'er the combers, looks downward to find us
        At rest in the hollows that rustle between.
     Where billow meets billow, then soft be thy pillow,
        Ah, weary wee flipperling, curl at thy ease!
     The storm shall not wake thee, nor shark overtake thee,
        Asleep in the arms of the slow-swinging seas!

                                              Seal Lullaby


All these things happened several years ago at a place called
Novastoshnah, or North East Point, on the Island of St. Paul, away and
away in the Bering Sea. Limmershin, the Winter Wren, told me the tale
when he was blown on to the rigging of a steamer going to Japan, and I
took him down into my cabin and warmed and fed him for a couple of days
till he was fit to fly back to St. Paul's again. Limmershin is a very
quaint little bird, but he knows how to tell the truth.

Nobody comes to Novastoshnah except on business, and the only people
who have regular business there are the seals. They come in the summer
months by hundreds and hundreds of thousands out of the cold gray sea.
For Novastoshnah Beach has the finest accommodation for seals of any
place in all the world.

Sea Catch knew that, and every spring would swim from whatever place
he happened to be in--would swim like a torpedo-boat straight for
Novastoshnah and spend a month fighting with his companions for a good
place on the rocks, as close to the sea as possible. Sea Catch was
fifteen years old, a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his
shoulders, and long, wicked dog teeth. When he heaved himself up on his
front flippers he stood more than four feet clear of the ground, and his
weight, if anyone had been bold enough to weigh him, was nearly seven
hundred pounds. He was scarred all over with the marks of savage fights,
but he was always ready for just one fight more. He would put his head
on one side, as though he were afraid to look his enemy in the face;
then he would shoot it out like lightning, and when the big teeth were
firmly fixed on the other seal's neck, the other seal might get away if
he could, but Sea Catch would not help him.

Yet Sea Catch never chased a beaten seal, for that was against the Rules
of the Beach. He only wanted room by the sea for his nursery. But as
there were forty or fifty thousand other seals hunting for the same
thing each spring, the whistling, bellowing, roaring, and blowing on the
beach was something frightful.

From a little hill called Hutchinson's Hill, you could look over three
and a half miles of ground covered with fighting seals; and the surf was
dotted all over with the heads of seals hurrying to land and begin their
share of the fighting. They fought in the breakers, they fought in the
sand, and they fought on the smooth-worn basalt rocks of the nurseries,
for they were just as stupid and unaccommodating as men. Their wives
never came to the island until late in May or early in June, for they
did not care to be torn to pieces; and the young two-, three-, and
four-year-old seals who had not begun housekeeping went inland about
half a mile through the ranks of the fighters and played about on the
sand dunes in droves and legions, and rubbed off every single green
thing that grew. They were called the holluschickie--the bachelors--and
there were perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at Novastoshnah
alone.

Sea Catch had just finished his forty-fifth fight one spring when
Matkah, his soft, sleek, gentle-eyed wife, came up out of the sea,
and he caught her by the scruff of the neck and dumped her down on his
reservation, saying gruffly: "Late as usual. Where have you been?"

It was not the fashion for Sea Catch to eat anything during the four
months he stayed on the beaches, and so his temper was generally bad.
Matkah knew better than to answer back. She looked round and cooed: "How
thoughtful of you. You've taken the old place again."

"I should think I had," said Sea Catch. "Look at me!"

He was scratched and bleeding in twenty places; one eye was almost out,
and his sides were torn to ribbons.

"Oh, you men, you men!" Matkah said, fanning herself with her hind
flipper. "Why can't you be sensible and settle your places quietly? You
look as though you had been fighting with the Killer Whale."

"I haven't been doing anything but fight since the middle of May. The
beach is disgracefully crowded this season. I've met at least a hundred
seals from Lukannon Beach, house hunting. Why can't people stay where
they belong?"

"I've often thought we should be much happier if we hauled out at Otter
Island instead of this crowded place," said Matkah.

"Bah! Only the holluschickie go to Otter Island. If we went there they
would say we were afraid. We must preserve appearances, my dear."

Sea Catch sunk his head proudly between his fat shoulders and pretended
to go to sleep for a few minutes, but all the time he was keeping a
sharp lookout for a fight. Now that all the seals and their wives were
on the land, you could hear their clamor miles out to sea above the
loudest gales. At the lowest counting there were over a million seals
on the beach--old seals, mother seals, tiny babies, and holluschickie,
fighting, scuffling, bleating, crawling, and playing together--going
down to the sea and coming up from it in gangs and regiments, lying
over every foot of ground as far as the eye could reach, and skirmishing
about in brigades through the fog. It is nearly always foggy at
Novastoshnah, except when the sun comes out and makes everything look
all pearly and rainbow-colored for a little while.

Kotick, Matkah's baby, was born in the middle of that confusion, and he
was all head and shoulders, with pale, watery blue eyes, as tiny seals
must be, but there was something about his coat that made his mother
look at him very closely.

"Sea Catch," she said, at last, "our baby's going to be white!"

"Empty clam-shells and dry seaweed!" snorted Sea Catch. "There never has
been such a thing in the world as a white seal."

"I can't help that," said Matkah; "there's going to be now." And she
sang the low, crooning seal song that all the mother seals sing to their
babies:

     You mustn't swim till you're six weeks old,
        Or your head will be sunk by your heels;
     And summer gales and Killer Whales
        Are bad for baby seals.

     Are bad for baby seals, dear rat,
        As bad as bad can be;
     But splash and grow strong,
     And you can't be wrong.
        Child of the Open Sea!

Of course the little fellow did not understand the words at first. He
paddled and scrambled about by his mother's side, and learned to scuffle
out of the way when his father was fighting with another seal, and the
two rolled and roared up and down the slippery rocks. Matkah used to go
to sea to get things to eat, and the baby was fed only once in two days,
but then he ate all he could and throve upon it.

The first thing he did was to crawl inland, and there he met tens
of thousands of babies of his own age, and they played together like
puppies, went to sleep on the clean sand, and played again. The old
people in the nurseries took no notice of them, and the holluschickie
kept to their own grounds, and the babies had a beautiful playtime.

When Matkah came back from her deep-sea fishing she would go straight
to their playground and call as a sheep calls for a lamb, and wait until
she heard Kotick bleat. Then she would take the straightest of straight
lines in his direction, striking out with her fore flippers and knocking
the youngsters head over heels right and left. There were always a few
hundred mothers hunting for their children through the playgrounds, and
the babies were kept lively. But, as Matkah told Kotick, "So long as you
don't lie in muddy water and get mange, or rub the hard sand into a cut
or scratch, and so long as you never go swimming when there is a heavy
sea, nothing will hurt you here."

Little seals can no more swim than little children, but they are unhappy
till they learn. The first time that Kotick went down to the sea a wave
carried him out beyond his depth, and his big head sank and his little
hind flippers flew up exactly as his mother had told him in the song,
and if the next wave had not thrown him back again he would have
drowned.

After that, he learned to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the
waves just cover him and lift him up while he paddled, but he always
kept his eye open for big waves that might hurt. He was two weeks
learning to use his flippers; and all that while he floundered in and
out of the water, and coughed and grunted and crawled up the beach and
took catnaps on the sand, and went back again, until at last he found
that he truly belonged to the water.

Then you can imagine the times that he had with his companions, ducking
under the rollers; or coming in on top of a comber and landing with a
swash and a splutter as the big wave went whirling far up the beach; or
standing up on his tail and scratching his head as the old people did;
or playing "I'm the King of the Castle" on slippery, weedy rocks that
just stuck out of the wash. Now and then he would see a thin fin, like
a big shark's fin, drifting along close to shore, and he knew that that
was the Killer Whale, the Grampus, who eats young seals when he can get
them; and Kotick would head for the beach like an arrow, and the fin
would jig off slowly, as if it were looking for nothing at all.

Late in October the seals began to leave St. Paul's for the deep sea, by
families and tribes, and there was no more fighting over the nurseries,
and the holluschickie played anywhere they liked. "Next year," said
Matkah to Kotick, "you will be a holluschickie; but this year you must
learn how to catch fish."

They set out together across the Pacific, and Matkah showed Kotick how
to sleep on his back with his flippers tucked down by his side and his
little nose just out of the water. No cradle is so comfortable as the
long, rocking swell of the Pacific. When Kotick felt his skin tingle all
over, Matkah told him he was learning the "feel of the water," and that
tingly, prickly feelings meant bad weather coming, and he must swim hard
and get away.

"In a little time," she said, "you'll know where to swim to, but just
now we'll follow Sea Pig, the Porpoise, for he is very wise." A school
of porpoises were ducking and tearing through the water, and little
Kotick followed them as fast as he could. "How do you know where to go
to?" he panted. The leader of the school rolled his white eye and ducked
under. "My tail tingles, youngster," he said. "That means there's a gale
behind me. Come along! When you're south of the Sticky Water [he meant
the Equator] and your tail tingles, that means there's a gale in front
of you and you must head north. Come along! The water feels bad here."

This was one of very many things that Kotick learned, and he was always
learning. Matkah taught him to follow the cod and the halibut along the
under-sea banks and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weeds;
how to skirt the wrecks lying a hundred fathoms below water and dart
like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another as the fishes
ran; how to dance on the top of the waves when the lightning was racing
all over the sky, and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy-tailed
Albatross and the Man-of-war Hawk as they went down the wind; how to
jump three or four feet clear of the water like a dolphin, flippers
close to the side and tail curved; to leave the flying fish alone
because they are all bony; to take the shoulder-piece out of a cod at
full speed ten fathoms deep, and never to stop and look at a boat or a
ship, but particularly a row-boat. At the end of six months what Kotick
did not know about deep-sea fishing was not worth the knowing. And all
that time he never set flipper on dry ground.

One day, however, as he was lying half asleep in the warm water
somewhere off the Island of Juan Fernandez, he felt faint and lazy all
over, just as human people do when the spring is in their legs, and he
remembered the good firm beaches of Novastoshnah seven thousand miles
away, the games his companions played, the smell of the seaweed, the
seal roar, and the fighting. That very minute he turned north, swimming
steadily, and as he went on he met scores of his mates, all bound for
the same place, and they said: "Greeting, Kotick! This year we are
all holluschickie, and we can dance the Fire-dance in the breakers off
Lukannon and play on the new grass. But where did you get that coat?"

Kotick's fur was almost pure white now, and though he felt very proud of
it, he only said, "Swim quickly! My bones are aching for the land." And
so they all came to the beaches where they had been born, and heard the
old seals, their fathers, fighting in the rolling mist.

That night Kotick danced the Fire-dance with the yearling seals. The sea
is full of fire on summer nights all the way down from Novastoshnah to
Lukannon, and each seal leaves a wake like burning oil behind him and a
flaming flash when he jumps, and the waves break in great phosphorescent
streaks and swirls. Then they went inland to the holluschickie grounds
and rolled up and down in the new wild wheat and told stories of what
they had done while they had been at sea. They talked about the Pacific
as boys would talk about a wood that they had been nutting in, and if
anyone had understood them he could have gone away and made such a chart
of that ocean as never was. The three- and four-year-old holluschickie
romped down from Hutchinson's Hill crying: "Out of the way, youngsters!
The sea is deep and you don't know all that's in it yet. Wait till
you've rounded the Horn. Hi, you yearling, where did you get that white
coat?"

"I didn't get it," said Kotick. "It grew." And just as he was going to
roll the speaker over, a couple of black-haired men with flat red faces
came from behind a sand dune, and Kotick, who had never seen a man
before, coughed and lowered his head. The holluschickie just bundled off
a few yards and sat staring stupidly. The men were no less than Kerick
Booterin, the chief of the seal-hunters on the island, and Patalamon,
his son. They came from the little village not half a mile from the sea
nurseries, and they were deciding what seals they would drive up to the
killing pens--for the seals were driven just like sheep--to be turned
into seal-skin jackets later on.

"Ho!" said Patalamon. "Look! There's a white seal!"

Kerick Booterin turned nearly white under his oil and smoke, for he was
an Aleut, and Aleuts are not clean people. Then he began to mutter a
prayer. "Don't touch him, Patalamon. There has never been a white seal
since--since I was born. Perhaps it is old Zaharrof's ghost. He was lost
last year in the big gale."

"I'm not going near him," said Patalamon. "He's unlucky. Do you really
think he is old Zaharrof come back? I owe him for some gulls' eggs."

"Don't look at him," said Kerick. "Head off that drove of
four-year-olds. The men ought to skin two hundred to-day, but it's the
beginning of the season and they are new to the work. A hundred will do.
Quick!"

Patalamon rattled a pair of seal's shoulder bones in front of a herd
of holluschickie and they stopped dead, puffing and blowing. Then he
stepped near and the seals began to move, and Kerick headed them inland,
and they never tried to get back to their companions. Hundreds and
hundreds of thousands of seals watched them being driven, but they went
on playing just the same. Kotick was the only one who asked questions,
and none of his companions could tell him anything, except that the
men always drove seals in that way for six weeks or two months of every
year.

"I am going to follow," he said, and his eyes nearly popped out of his
head as he shuffled along in the wake of the herd.

"The white seal is coming after us," cried Patalamon. "That's the first
time a seal has ever come to the killing-grounds alone."

"Hsh! Don't look behind you," said Kerick. "It is Zaharrof's ghost! I
must speak to the priest about this."

The distance to the killing-grounds was only half a mile, but it took an
hour to cover, because if the seals went too fast Kerick knew that they
would get heated and then their fur would come off in patches when they
were skinned. So they went on very slowly, past Sea Lion's Neck, past
Webster House, till they came to the Salt House just beyond the sight
of the seals on the beach. Kotick followed, panting and wondering.
He thought that he was at the world's end, but the roar of the seal
nurseries behind him sounded as loud as the roar of a train in a tunnel.
Then Kerick sat down on the moss and pulled out a heavy pewter watch
and let the drove cool off for thirty minutes, and Kotick could hear the
fog-dew dripping off the brim of his cap. Then ten or twelve men, each
with an iron-bound club three or four feet long, came up, and Kerick
pointed out one or two of the drove that were bitten by their companions
or too hot, and the men kicked those aside with their heavy boots made
of the skin of a walrus's throat, and then Kerick said, "Let go!" and
then the men clubbed the seals on the head as fast as they could.

Ten minutes later little Kotick did not recognize his friends any more,
for their skins were ripped off from the nose to the hind flippers,
whipped off and thrown down on the ground in a pile. That was enough
for Kotick. He turned and galloped (a seal can gallop very swiftly for
a short time) back to the sea; his little new mustache bristling with
horror. At Sea Lion's Neck, where the great sea lions sit on the edge
of the surf, he flung himself flipper-overhead into the cool water and
rocked there, gasping miserably. "What's here?" said a sea lion gruffly,
for as a rule the sea lions keep themselves to themselves.

"Scoochnie! Ochen scoochnie!" ("I'm lonesome, very lonesome!") said
Kotick. "They're killing all the holluschickie on all the beaches!"

The Sea Lion turned his head inshore. "Nonsense!" he said. "Your
friends are making as much noise as ever. You must have seen old Kerick
polishing off a drove. He's done that for thirty years."

"It's horrible," said Kotick, backing water as a wave went over him, and
steadying himself with a screw stroke of his flippers that brought him
all standing within three inches of a jagged edge of rock.

"Well done for a yearling!" said the Sea Lion, who could appreciate good
swimming. "I suppose it is rather awful from your way of looking at it,
but if you seals will come here year after year, of course the men get
to know of it, and unless you can find an island where no men ever come
you will always be driven."

"Isn't there any such island?" began Kotick.

"I've followed the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty years, and I can't
say I've found it yet. But look here--you seem to have a fondness for
talking to your betters--suppose you go to Walrus Islet and talk to
Sea Vitch. He may know something. Don't flounce off like that. It's a
six-mile swim, and if I were you I should haul out and take a nap first,
little one."

Kotick thought that that was good advice, so he swam round to his own
beach, hauled out, and slept for half an hour, twitching all over, as
seals will. Then he headed straight for Walrus Islet, a little low sheet
of rocky island almost due northeast from Novastoshnah, all ledges and
rock and gulls' nests, where the walrus herded by themselves.

He landed close to old Sea Vitch--the big, ugly, bloated, pimpled,
fat-necked, long-tusked walrus of the North Pacific, who has no manners
except when he is asleep--as he was then, with his hind flippers half in
and half out of the surf.

"Wake up!" barked Kotick, for the gulls were making a great noise.

"Hah! Ho! Hmph! What's that?" said Sea Vitch, and he struck the next
walrus a blow with his tusks and waked him up, and the next struck the
next, and so on till they were all awake and staring in every direction
but the right one.

"Hi! It's me," said Kotick, bobbing in the surf and looking like a
little white slug.

"Well! May I be--skinned!" said Sea Vitch, and they all looked at Kotick
as you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentlemen would look at a
little boy. Kotick did not care to hear any more about skinning just
then; he had seen enough of it. So he called out: "Isn't there any place
for seals to go where men don't ever come?"

"Go and find out," said Sea Vitch, shutting his eyes. "Run away. We're
busy here."

Kotick made his dolphin-jump in the air and shouted as loud as he could:
"Clam-eater! Clam-eater!" He knew that Sea Vitch never caught a fish in
his life but always rooted for clams and seaweed; though he pretended to
be a very terrible person. Naturally the Chickies and the Gooverooskies
and the Epatkas--the Burgomaster Gulls and the Kittiwakes and the
Puffins, who are always looking for a chance to be rude, took up the
cry, and--so Limmershin told me--for nearly five minutes you could not
have heard a gun fired on Walrus Islet. All the population was yelling
and screaming "Clam-eater! Stareek [old man]!" while Sea Vitch rolled
from side to side grunting and coughing.

"Now will you tell?" said Kotick, all out of breath.

"Go and ask Sea Cow," said Sea Vitch. "If he is living still, he'll be
able to tell you."

"How shall I know Sea Cow when I meet him?" said Kotick, sheering off.

"He's the only thing in the sea uglier than Sea Vitch," screamed a
Burgomaster gull, wheeling under Sea Vitch's nose. "Uglier, and with
worse manners! Stareek!"

Kotick swam back to Novastoshnah, leaving the gulls to scream. There he
found that no one sympathized with him in his little attempt to discover
a quiet place for the seals. They told him that men had always driven
the holluschickie--it was part of the day's work--and that if he did not
like to see ugly things he should not have gone to the killing grounds.
But none of the other seals had seen the killing, and that made the
difference between him and his friends. Besides, Kotick was a white
seal.

"What you must do," said old Sea Catch, after he had heard his son's
adventures, "is to grow up and be a big seal like your father, and have
a nursery on the beach, and then they will leave you alone. In another
five years you ought to be able to fight for yourself." Even gentle
Matkah, his mother, said: "You will never be able to stop the killing.
Go and play in the sea, Kotick." And Kotick went off and danced the
Fire-dance with a very heavy little heart.

That autumn he left the beach as soon as he could, and set off alone
because of a notion in his bullet-head. He was going to find Sea Cow,
if there was such a person in the sea, and he was going to find a quiet
island with good firm beaches for seals to live on, where men could not
get at them. So he explored and explored by himself from the North to
the South Pacific, swimming as much as three hundred miles in a day
and a night. He met with more adventures than can be told, and narrowly
escaped being caught by the Basking Shark, and the Spotted Shark, and
the Hammerhead, and he met all the untrustworthy ruffians that loaf up
and down the seas, and the heavy polite fish, and the scarlet spotted
scallops that are moored in one place for hundreds of years, and grow
very proud of it; but he never met Sea Cow, and he never found an island
that he could fancy.

If the beach was good and hard, with a slope behind it for seals to play
on, there was always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon, boiling down
blubber, and Kotick knew what that meant. Or else he could see that
seals had once visited the island and been killed off, and Kotick knew
that where men had come once they would come again.

He picked up with an old stumpy-tailed albatross, who told him that
Kerguelen Island was the very place for peace and quiet, and when Kotick
went down there he was all but smashed to pieces against some wicked
black cliffs in a heavy sleet-storm with lightning and thunder. Yet as
he pulled out against the gale he could see that even there had once
been a seal nursery. And it was so in all the other islands that he
visited.

Limmershin gave a long list of them, for he said that Kotick spent five
seasons exploring, with a four months' rest each year at Novastoshnah,
when the holluschickie used to make fun of him and his imaginary
islands. He went to the Gallapagos, a horrid dry place on the Equator,
where he was nearly baked to death; he went to the Georgia Islands,
the Orkneys, Emerald Island, Little Nightingale Island, Gough's Island,
Bouvet's Island, the Crossets, and even to a little speck of an island
south of the Cape of Good Hope. But everywhere the People of the Sea
told him the same things. Seals had come to those islands once upon a
time, but men had killed them all off. Even when he swam thousands of
miles out of the Pacific and got to a place called Cape Corrientes (that
was when he was coming back from Gough's Island), he found a few hundred
mangy seals on a rock and they told him that men came there too.

That nearly broke his heart, and he headed round the Horn back to his
own beaches; and on his way north he hauled out on an island full of
green trees, where he found an old, old seal who was dying, and Kotick
caught fish for him and told him all his sorrows. "Now," said Kotick,
"I am going back to Novastoshnah, and if I am driven to the killing-pens
with the holluschickie I shall not care."

The old seal said, "Try once more. I am the last of the Lost Rookery of
Masafuera, and in the days when men killed us by the hundred thousand
there was a story on the beaches that some day a white seal would come
out of the North and lead the seal people to a quiet place. I am old,
and I shall never live to see that day, but others will. Try once more."

And Kotick curled up his mustache (it was a beauty) and said, "I am the
only white seal that has ever been born on the beaches, and I am the
only seal, black or white, who ever thought of looking for new islands."

This cheered him immensely; and when he came back to Novastoshnah that
summer, Matkah, his mother, begged him to marry and settle down, for
he was no longer a holluschick but a full-grown sea-catch, with a curly
white mane on his shoulders, as heavy, as big, and as fierce as his
father. "Give me another season," he said. "Remember, Mother, it is
always the seventh wave that goes farthest up the beach."

Curiously enough, there was another seal who thought that she would put
off marrying till the next year, and Kotick danced the Fire-dance with
her all down Lukannon Beach the night before he set off on his last
exploration. This time he went westward, because he had fallen on the
trail of a great shoal of halibut, and he needed at least one hundred
pounds of fish a day to keep him in good condition. He chased them till
he was tired, and then he curled himself up and went to sleep on the
hollows of the ground swell that sets in to Copper Island. He knew the
coast perfectly well, so about midnight, when he felt himself gently
bumped on a weed-bed, he said, "Hm, tide's running strong tonight," and
turning over under water opened his eyes slowly and stretched. Then
he jumped like a cat, for he saw huge things nosing about in the shoal
water and browsing on the heavy fringes of the weeds.

"By the Great Combers of Magellan!" he said, beneath his mustache. "Who
in the Deep Sea are these people?"

They were like no walrus, sea lion, seal, bear, whale, shark, fish,
squid, or scallop that Kotick had ever seen before. They were between
twenty and thirty feet long, and they had no hind flippers, but a
shovel-like tail that looked as if it had been whittled out of wet
leather. Their heads were the most foolish-looking things you ever saw,
and they balanced on the ends of their tails in deep water when they
weren't grazing, bowing solemnly to each other and waving their front
flippers as a fat man waves his arm.

"Ahem!" said Kotick. "Good sport, gentlemen?" The big things answered by
bowing and waving their flippers like the Frog Footman. When they began
feeding again Kotick saw that their upper lip was split into two pieces
that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together again with
a whole bushel of seaweed between the splits. They tucked the stuff into
their mouths and chumped solemnly.

"Messy style of feeding, that," said Kotick. They bowed again, and
Kotick began to lose his temper. "Very good," he said. "If you do happen
to have an extra joint in your front flipper you needn't show off so. I
see you bow gracefully, but I should like to know your names." The split
lips moved and twitched; and the glassy green eyes stared, but they did
not speak.

"Well!" said Kotick. "You're the only people I've ever met uglier than
Sea Vitch--and with worse manners."

Then he remembered in a flash what the Burgomaster gull had screamed
to him when he was a little yearling at Walrus Islet, and he tumbled
backward in the water, for he knew that he had found Sea Cow at last.

The sea cows went on schlooping and grazing and chumping in the weed,
and Kotick asked them questions in every language that he had picked
up in his travels; and the Sea People talk nearly as many languages as
human beings. But the sea cows did not answer because Sea Cow cannot
talk. He has only six bones in his neck where he ought to have seven,
and they say under the sea that that prevents him from speaking even
to his companions. But, as you know, he has an extra joint in his
foreflipper, and by waving it up and down and about he makes what
answers to a sort of clumsy telegraphic code.

By daylight Kotick's mane was standing on end and his temper was gone
where the dead crabs go. Then the Sea Cow began to travel northward very
slowly, stopping to hold absurd bowing councils from time to time, and
Kotick followed them, saying to himself, "People who are such idiots as
these are would have been killed long ago if they hadn't found out some
safe island. And what is good enough for the Sea Cow is good enough for
the Sea Catch. All the same, I wish they'd hurry."

It was weary work for Kotick. The herd never went more than forty or
fifty miles a day, and stopped to feed at night, and kept close to the
shore all the time; while Kotick swam round them, and over them, and
under them, but he could not hurry them up one-half mile. As they went
farther north they held a bowing council every few hours, and Kotick
nearly bit off his mustache with impatience till he saw that they were
following up a warm current of water, and then he respected them more.

One night they sank through the shiny water--sank like stones--and for
the first time since he had known them began to swim quickly. Kotick
followed, and the pace astonished him, for he never dreamed that Sea Cow
was anything of a swimmer. They headed for a cliff by the shore--a cliff
that ran down into deep water, and plunged into a dark hole at the
foot of it, twenty fathoms under the sea. It was a long, long swim, and
Kotick badly wanted fresh air before he was out of the dark tunnel they
led him through.

"My wig!" he said, when he rose, gasping and puffing, into open water at
the farther end. "It was a long dive, but it was worth it."

The sea cows had separated and were browsing lazily along the edges of
the finest beaches that Kotick had ever seen. There were long
stretches of smooth-worn rock running for miles, exactly fitted to make
seal-nurseries, and there were play-grounds of hard sand sloping inland
behind them, and there were rollers for seals to dance in, and long
grass to roll in, and sand dunes to climb up and down, and, best of all,
Kotick knew by the feel of the water, which never deceives a true sea
catch, that no men had ever come there.

The first thing he did was to assure himself that the fishing was good,
and then he swam along the beaches and counted up the delightful low
sandy islands half hidden in the beautiful rolling fog. Away to the
northward, out to sea, ran a line of bars and shoals and rocks that
would never let a ship come within six miles of the beach, and between
the islands and the mainland was a stretch of deep water that ran up to
the perpendicular cliffs, and somewhere below the cliffs was the mouth
of the tunnel.

"It's Novastoshnah over again, but ten times better," said Kotick. "Sea
Cow must be wiser than I thought. Men can't come down the cliffs, even
if there were any men; and the shoals to seaward would knock a ship to
splinters. If any place in the sea is safe, this is it."

He began to think of the seal he had left behind him, but though he was
in a hurry to go back to Novastoshnah, he thoroughly explored the new
country, so that he would be able to answer all questions.

Then he dived and made sure of the mouth of the tunnel, and raced
through to the southward. No one but a sea cow or a seal would have
dreamed of there being such a place, and when he looked back at the
cliffs even Kotick could hardly believe that he had been under them.

He was six days going home, though he was not swimming slowly; and when
he hauled out just above Sea Lion's Neck the first person he met was the
seal who had been waiting for him, and she saw by the look in his eyes
that he had found his island at last.

But the holluschickie and Sea Catch, his father, and all the other seals
laughed at him when he told them what he had discovered, and a young
seal about his own age said, "This is all very well, Kotick, but you
can't come from no one knows where and order us off like this. Remember
we've been fighting for our nurseries, and that's a thing you never did.
You preferred prowling about in the sea."

The other seals laughed at this, and the young seal began twisting his
head from side to side. He had just married that year, and was making a
great fuss about it.

"I've no nursery to fight for," said Kotick. "I only want to show you
all a place where you will be safe. What's the use of fighting?"

"Oh, if you're trying to back out, of course I've no more to say," said
the young seal with an ugly chuckle.

"Will you come with me if I win?" said Kotick. And a green light came
into his eye, for he was very angry at having to fight at all.

"Very good," said the young seal carelessly. "If you win, I'll come."

He had no time to change his mind, for Kotick's head was out and his
teeth sunk in the blubber of the young seal's neck. Then he threw
himself back on his haunches and hauled his enemy down the beach, shook
him, and knocked him over. Then Kotick roared to the seals: "I've done
my best for you these five seasons past. I've found you the island where
you'll be safe, but unless your heads are dragged off your silly necks
you won't believe. I'm going to teach you now. Look out for yourselves!"

Limmershin told me that never in his life--and Limmershin sees ten
thousand big seals fighting every year--never in all his little life
did he see anything like Kotick's charge into the nurseries. He flung
himself at the biggest sea catch he could find, caught him by the
throat, choked him and bumped him and banged him till he grunted for
mercy, and then threw him aside and attacked the next. You see, Kotick
had never fasted for four months as the big seals did every year, and
his deep-sea swimming trips kept him in perfect condition, and, best
of all, he had never fought before. His curly white mane stood up with
rage, and his eyes flamed, and his big dog teeth glistened, and he was
splendid to look at. Old Sea Catch, his father, saw him tearing past,
hauling the grizzled old seals about as though they had been halibut,
and upsetting the young bachelors in all directions; and Sea Catch gave
a roar and shouted: "He may be a fool, but he is the best fighter on the
beaches! Don't tackle your father, my son! He's with you!"

Kotick roared in answer, and old Sea Catch waddled in with his mustache
on end, blowing like a locomotive, while Matkah and the seal that was
going to marry Kotick cowered down and admired their men-folk. It was
a gorgeous fight, for the two fought as long as there was a seal that
dared lift up his head, and when there were none they paraded grandly up
and down the beach side by side, bellowing.

At night, just as the Northern Lights were winking and flashing through
the fog, Kotick climbed a bare rock and looked down on the scattered
nurseries and the torn and bleeding seals. "Now," he said, "I've taught
you your lesson."

"My wig!" said old Sea Catch, boosting himself up stiffly, for he was
fearfully mauled. "The Killer Whale himself could not have cut them up
worse. Son, I'm proud of you, and what's more, I'll come with you to
your island--if there is such a place."

"Hear you, fat pigs of the sea. Who comes with me to the Sea Cow's
tunnel? Answer, or I shall teach you again," roared Kotick.

There was a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the
beaches. "We will come," said thousands of tired voices. "We will follow
Kotick, the White Seal."

Then Kotick dropped his head between his shoulders and shut his eyes
proudly. He was not a white seal any more, but red from head to tail.
All the same he would have scorned to look at or touch one of his
wounds.

A week later he and his army (nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old
seals) went away north to the Sea Cow's tunnel, Kotick leading them,
and the seals that stayed at Novastoshnah called them idiots. But next
spring, when they all met off the fishing banks of the Pacific, Kotick's
seals told such tales of the new beaches beyond Sea Cow's tunnel that
more and more seals left Novastoshnah. Of course it was not all done at
once, for the seals are not very clever, and they need a long time to
turn things over in their minds, but year after year more seals went
away from Novastoshnah, and Lukannon, and the other nurseries, to the
quiet, sheltered beaches where Kotick sits all the summer through,
getting bigger and fatter and stronger each year, while the
holluschickie play around him, in that sea where no man comes.




Lukannon

This is the great deep-sea song that all the St. Paul seals sing when
they are heading back to their beaches in the summer. It is a sort of
very sad seal National Anthem.

     I met my mates in the morning (and, oh, but I am old!)
     Where roaring on the ledges the summer ground-swell rolled;
     I heard them lift the chorus that drowned the breakers' song--
     The Beaches of Lukannon--two million voices strong.

     The song of pleasant stations beside the salt lagoons,
     The song of blowing squadrons that shuffled down the dunes,
     The song of midnight dances that churned the sea to flame--
     The Beaches of Lukannon--before the sealers came!

     I met my mates in the morning (I'll never meet them more!);
     They came and went in legions that darkened all the shore.
     And o'er the foam-flecked offing as far as voice could reach
     We hailed the landing-parties and we sang them up the beach.

     The Beaches of Lukannon--the winter wheat so tall--
     The dripping, crinkled lichens, and the sea-fog drenching all!
     The platforms of our playground, all shining smooth and worn!
     The Beaches of Lukannon--the home where we were born!

     I met my mates in the morning, a broken, scattered band.
     Men shoot us in the water and club us on the land;
     Men drive us to the Salt House like silly sheep and tame,
     And still we sing Lukannon--before the sealers came.

     Wheel down, wheel down to southward; oh, Gooverooska, go!
     And tell the Deep-Sea Viceroys the story of our woe;
     Ere, empty as the shark's egg the tempest flings ashore,
     The Beaches of Lukannon shall know their sons no more!




"Rikki-Tikki-Tavi"

     At the hole where he went in
     Red-Eye called to Wrinkle-Skin.
     Hear what little Red-Eye saith:
     "Nag, come up and dance with death!"

     Eye to eye and head to head,
        (Keep the measure, Nag.)
     This shall end when one is dead;
        (At thy pleasure, Nag.)
     Turn for turn and twist for twist--
        (Run and hide thee, Nag.)
     Hah!  The hooded Death has missed!
        (Woe betide thee, Nag!)

This is the story of the great war that Rikki-tikki-tavi fought
single-handed, through the bath-rooms of the big bungalow in Segowlee
cantonment. Darzee, the Tailorbird, helped him, and Chuchundra, the
musk-rat, who never comes out into the middle of the floor, but always
creeps round by the wall, gave him advice, but Rikki-tikki did the real
fighting.

He was a mongoose, rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail, but
quite like a weasel in his head and his habits. His eyes and the end
of his restless nose were pink. He could scratch himself anywhere he
pleased with any leg, front or back, that he chose to use. He could
fluff up his tail till it looked like a bottle brush, and his war cry as
he scuttled through the long grass was: "Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!"

One day, a high summer flood washed him out of the burrow where he lived
with his father and mother, and carried him, kicking and clucking, down
a roadside ditch. He found a little wisp of grass floating there, and
clung to it till he lost his senses. When he revived, he was lying in
the hot sun on the middle of a garden path, very draggled indeed, and a
small boy was saying, "Here's a dead mongoose. Let's have a funeral."

"No," said his mother, "let's take him in and dry him. Perhaps he isn't
really dead."

They took him into the house, and a big man picked him up between his
finger and thumb and said he was not dead but half choked. So they
wrapped him in cotton wool, and warmed him over a little fire, and he
opened his eyes and sneezed.

"Now," said the big man (he was an Englishman who had just moved into
the bungalow), "don't frighten him, and we'll see what he'll do."

It is the hardest thing in the world to frighten a mongoose, because
he is eaten up from nose to tail with curiosity. The motto of all
the mongoose family is "Run and find out," and Rikki-tikki was a true
mongoose. He looked at the cotton wool, decided that it was not good to
eat, ran all round the table, sat up and put his fur in order, scratched
himself, and jumped on the small boy's shoulder.

"Don't be frightened, Teddy," said his father. "That's his way of making
friends."

"Ouch! He's tickling under my chin," said Teddy.

Rikki-tikki looked down between the boy's collar and neck, snuffed at
his ear, and climbed down to the floor, where he sat rubbing his nose.

"Good gracious," said Teddy's mother, "and that's a wild creature! I
suppose he's so tame because we've been kind to him."

"All mongooses are like that," said her husband. "If Teddy doesn't pick
him up by the tail, or try to put him in a cage, he'll run in and out of
the house all day long. Let's give him something to eat."

They gave him a little piece of raw meat. Rikki-tikki liked it
immensely, and when it was finished he went out into the veranda and sat
in the sunshine and fluffed up his fur to make it dry to the roots. Then
he felt better.

"There are more things to find out about in this house," he said to
himself, "than all my family could find out in all their lives. I shall
certainly stay and find out."

He spent all that day roaming over the house. He nearly drowned himself
in the bath-tubs, put his nose into the ink on a writing table, and
burned it on the end of the big man's cigar, for he climbed up in the
big man's lap to see how writing was done. At nightfall he ran into
Teddy's nursery to watch how kerosene lamps were lighted, and when Teddy
went to bed Rikki-tikki climbed up too. But he was a restless companion,
because he had to get up and attend to every noise all through the
night, and find out what made it. Teddy's mother and father came in,
the last thing, to look at their boy, and Rikki-tikki was awake on
the pillow. "I don't like that," said Teddy's mother. "He may bite the
child." "He'll do no such thing," said the father. "Teddy's safer with
that little beast than if he had a bloodhound to watch him. If a snake
came into the nursery now--"

But Teddy's mother wouldn't think of anything so awful.

Early in the morning Rikki-tikki came to early breakfast in the veranda
riding on Teddy's shoulder, and they gave him banana and some boiled
egg. He sat on all their laps one after the other, because every
well-brought-up mongoose always hopes to be a house mongoose some day
and have rooms to run about in; and Rikki-tikki's mother (she used to
live in the general's house at Segowlee) had carefully told Rikki what
to do if ever he came across white men.

Then Rikki-tikki went out into the garden to see what was to be seen.
It was a large garden, only half cultivated, with bushes, as big as
summer-houses, of Marshal Niel roses, lime and orange trees, clumps of
bamboos, and thickets of high grass. Rikki-tikki licked his lips. "This
is a splendid hunting-ground," he said, and his tail grew bottle-brushy
at the thought of it, and he scuttled up and down the garden, snuffing
here and there till he heard very sorrowful voices in a thorn-bush.

It was Darzee, the Tailorbird, and his wife. They had made a beautiful
nest by pulling two big leaves together and stitching them up the edges
with fibers, and had filled the hollow with cotton and downy fluff. The
nest swayed to and fro, as they sat on the rim and cried.

"What is the matter?" asked Rikki-tikki.

"We are very miserable," said Darzee. "One of our babies fell out of the
nest yesterday and Nag ate him."

"H'm!" said Rikki-tikki, "that is very sad--but I am a stranger here.
Who is Nag?"

Darzee and his wife only cowered down in the nest without answering, for
from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there came a low hiss--a
horrid cold sound that made Rikki-tikki jump back two clear feet. Then
inch by inch out of the grass rose up the head and spread hood of Nag,
the big black cobra, and he was five feet long from tongue to tail.
When he had lifted one-third of himself clear of the ground, he stayed
balancing to and fro exactly as a dandelion tuft balances in the wind,
and he looked at Rikki-tikki with the wicked snake's eyes that never
change their expression, whatever the snake may be thinking of.

"Who is Nag?" said he. "I am Nag. The great God Brahm put his mark upon
all our people, when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off
Brahm as he slept. Look, and be afraid!"

He spread out his hood more than ever, and Rikki-tikki saw the
spectacle-mark on the back of it that looks exactly like the eye part
of a hook-and-eye fastening. He was afraid for the minute, but it is
impossible for a mongoose to stay frightened for any length of time, and
though Rikki-tikki had never met a live cobra before, his mother had fed
him on dead ones, and he knew that all a grown mongoose's business in
life was to fight and eat snakes. Nag knew that too and, at the bottom
of his cold heart, he was afraid.

"Well," said Rikki-tikki, and his tail began to fluff up again, "marks
or no marks, do you think it is right for you to eat fledglings out of a
nest?"

Nag was thinking to himself, and watching the least little movement in
the grass behind Rikki-tikki. He knew that mongooses in the garden
meant death sooner or later for him and his family, but he wanted to get
Rikki-tikki off his guard. So he dropped his head a little, and put it
on one side.

"Let us talk," he said. "You eat eggs. Why should not I eat birds?"

"Behind you! Look behind you!" sang Darzee.

Rikki-tikki knew better than to waste time in staring. He jumped up in
the air as high as he could go, and just under him whizzed by the head
of Nagaina, Nag's wicked wife. She had crept up behind him as he was
talking, to make an end of him. He heard her savage hiss as the stroke
missed. He came down almost across her back, and if he had been an old
mongoose he would have known that then was the time to break her back
with one bite; but he was afraid of the terrible lashing return stroke
of the cobra. He bit, indeed, but did not bite long enough, and he
jumped clear of the whisking tail, leaving Nagaina torn and angry.

"Wicked, wicked Darzee!" said Nag, lashing up as high as he could reach
toward the nest in the thorn-bush. But Darzee had built it out of reach
of snakes, and it only swayed to and fro.

Rikki-tikki felt his eyes growing red and hot (when a mongoose's eyes
grow red, he is angry), and he sat back on his tail and hind legs like a
little kangaroo, and looked all round him, and chattered with rage. But
Nag and Nagaina had disappeared into the grass. When a snake misses its
stroke, it never says anything or gives any sign of what it means to do
next. Rikki-tikki did not care to follow them, for he did not feel sure
that he could manage two snakes at once. So he trotted off to the gravel
path near the house, and sat down to think. It was a serious matter for
him.

If you read the old books of natural history, you will find they say
that when the mongoose fights the snake and happens to get bitten,
he runs off and eats some herb that cures him. That is not true.
The victory is only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of
foot--snake's blow against mongoose's jump--and as no eye can follow the
motion of a snake's head when it strikes, this makes things much more
wonderful than any magic herb. Rikki-tikki knew he was a young mongoose,
and it made him all the more pleased to think that he had managed to
escape a blow from behind. It gave him confidence in himself, and when
Teddy came running down the path, Rikki-tikki was ready to be petted.

But just as Teddy was stooping, something wriggled a little in the dust,
and a tiny voice said: "Be careful. I am Death!" It was Karait, the
dusty brown snakeling that lies for choice on the dusty earth; and his
bite is as dangerous as the cobra's. But he is so small that nobody
thinks of him, and so he does the more harm to people.

Rikki-tikki's eyes grew red again, and he danced up to Karait with the
peculiar rocking, swaying motion that he had inherited from his family.
It looks very funny, but it is so perfectly balanced a gait that you can
fly off from it at any angle you please, and in dealing with snakes this
is an advantage. If Rikki-tikki had only known, he was doing a much more
dangerous thing than fighting Nag, for Karait is so small, and can turn
so quickly, that unless Rikki bit him close to the back of the head,
he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip. But Rikki did not
know. His eyes were all red, and he rocked back and forth, looking for
a good place to hold. Karait struck out. Rikki jumped sideways and
tried to run in, but the wicked little dusty gray head lashed within a
fraction of his shoulder, and he had to jump over the body, and the head
followed his heels close.

Teddy shouted to the house: "Oh, look here! Our mongoose is killing a
snake." And Rikki-tikki heard a scream from Teddy's mother. His father
ran out with a stick, but by the time he came up, Karait had lunged out
once too far, and Rikki-tikki had sprung, jumped on the snake's back,
dropped his head far between his forelegs, bitten as high up the back
as he could get hold, and rolled away. That bite paralyzed Karait, and
Rikki-tikki was just going to eat him up from the tail, after the custom
of his family at dinner, when he remembered that a full meal makes a
slow mongoose, and if he wanted all his strength and quickness ready, he
must keep himself thin.

He went away for a dust bath under the castor-oil bushes, while
Teddy's father beat the dead Karait. "What is the use of that?" thought
Rikki-tikki. "I have settled it all;" and then Teddy's mother picked
him up from the dust and hugged him, crying that he had saved Teddy
from death, and Teddy's father said that he was a providence, and Teddy
looked on with big scared eyes. Rikki-tikki was rather amused at all the
fuss, which, of course, he did not understand. Teddy's mother might just
as well have petted Teddy for playing in the dust. Rikki was thoroughly
enjoying himself.

That night at dinner, walking to and fro among the wine-glasses on the
table, he might have stuffed himself three times over with nice things.
But he remembered Nag and Nagaina, and though it was very pleasant to be
patted and petted by Teddy's mother, and to sit on Teddy's shoulder, his
eyes would get red from time to time, and he would go off into his long
war cry of "Rikk-tikk-tikki-tikki-tchk!"

Teddy carried him off to bed, and insisted on Rikki-tikki sleeping under
his chin. Rikki-tikki was too well bred to bite or scratch, but as soon
as Teddy was asleep he went off for his nightly walk round the house,
and in the dark he ran up against Chuchundra, the musk-rat, creeping
around by the wall. Chuchundra is a broken-hearted little beast. He
whimpers and cheeps all the night, trying to make up his mind to run
into the middle of the room. But he never gets there.

"Don't kill me," said Chuchundra, almost weeping. "Rikki-tikki, don't
kill me!"

"Do you think a snake-killer kills muskrats?" said Rikki-tikki
scornfully.

"Those who kill snakes get killed by snakes," said Chuchundra, more
sorrowfully than ever. "And how am I to be sure that Nag won't mistake
me for you some dark night?"

"There's not the least danger," said Rikki-tikki. "But Nag is in the
garden, and I know you don't go there."

"My cousin Chua, the rat, told me--" said Chuchundra, and then he
stopped.

"Told you what?"

"H'sh! Nag is everywhere, Rikki-tikki. You should have talked to Chua in
the garden."

"I didn't--so you must tell me. Quick, Chuchundra, or I'll bite you!"

Chuchundra sat down and cried till the tears rolled off his whiskers.
"I am a very poor man," he sobbed. "I never had spirit enough to run out
into the middle of the room. H'sh! I mustn't tell you anything. Can't
you hear, Rikki-tikki?"

Rikki-tikki listened. The house was as still as still, but he thought he
could just catch the faintest scratch-scratch in the world--a noise as
faint as that of a wasp walking on a window-pane--the dry scratch of a
snake's scales on brick-work.

"That's Nag or Nagaina," he said to himself, "and he is crawling into
the bath-room sluice. You're right, Chuchundra; I should have talked to
Chua."

He stole off to Teddy's bath-room, but there was nothing there, and then
to Teddy's mother's bathroom. At the bottom of the smooth plaster wall
there was a brick pulled out to make a sluice for the bath water, and as
Rikki-tikki stole in by the masonry curb where the bath is put, he heard
Nag and Nagaina whispering together outside in the moonlight.

"When the house is emptied of people," said Nagaina to her husband, "he
will have to go away, and then the garden will be our own again. Go in
quietly, and remember that the big man who killed Karait is the first
one to bite. Then come out and tell me, and we will hunt for Rikki-tikki
together."

"But are you sure that there is anything to be gained by killing the
people?" said Nag.

"Everything. When there were no people in the bungalow, did we have any
mongoose in the garden? So long as the bungalow is empty, we are king
and queen of the garden; and remember that as soon as our eggs in the
melon bed hatch (as they may tomorrow), our children will need room and
quiet."

"I had not thought of that," said Nag. "I will go, but there is no need
that we should hunt for Rikki-tikki afterward. I will kill the big man
and his wife, and the child if I can, and come away quietly. Then the
bungalow will be empty, and Rikki-tikki will go."

Rikki-tikki tingled all over with rage and hatred at this, and then
Nag's head came through the sluice, and his five feet of cold body
followed it. Angry as he was, Rikki-tikki was very frightened as he saw
the size of the big cobra. Nag coiled himself up, raised his head,
and looked into the bathroom in the dark, and Rikki could see his eyes
glitter.

"Now, if I kill him here, Nagaina will know; and if I fight him on
the open floor, the odds are in his favor. What am I to do?" said
Rikki-tikki-tavi.

Nag waved to and fro, and then Rikki-tikki heard him drinking from the
biggest water-jar that was used to fill the bath. "That is good," said
the snake. "Now, when Karait was killed, the big man had a stick. He may
have that stick still, but when he comes in to bathe in the morning he
will not have a stick. I shall wait here till he comes. Nagaina--do you
hear me?--I shall wait here in the cool till daytime."

There was no answer from outside, so Rikki-tikki knew Nagaina had gone
away. Nag coiled himself down, coil by coil, round the bulge at the
bottom of the water jar, and Rikki-tikki stayed still as death. After an
hour he began to move, muscle by muscle, toward the jar. Nag was asleep,
and Rikki-tikki looked at his big back, wondering which would be the
best place for a good hold. "If I don't break his back at the first
jump," said Rikki, "he can still fight. And if he fights--O Rikki!" He
looked at the thickness of the neck below the hood, but that was too
much for him; and a bite near the tail would only make Nag savage.

"It must be the head"' he said at last; "the head above the hood. And,
when I am once there, I must not let go."

Then he jumped. The head was lying a little clear of the water jar,
under the curve of it; and, as his teeth met, Rikki braced his back
against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold down the head. This
gave him just one second's purchase, and he made the most of it. Then he
was battered to and fro as a rat is shaken by a dog--to and fro on the
floor, up and down, and around in great circles, but his eyes were red
and he held on as the body cart-whipped over the floor, upsetting the
tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush, and banged against the
tin side of the bath. As he held he closed his jaws tighter and tighter,
for he made sure he would be banged to death, and, for the honor of his
family, he preferred to be found with his teeth locked. He was dizzy,
aching, and felt shaken to pieces when something went off like a
thunderclap just behind him. A hot wind knocked him senseless and red
fire singed his fur. The big man had been wakened by the noise, and had
fired both barrels of a shotgun into Nag just behind the hood.

Rikki-tikki held on with his eyes shut, for now he was quite sure he was
dead. But the head did not move, and the big man picked him up and said,
"It's the mongoose again, Alice. The little chap has saved our lives
now."

Then Teddy's mother came in with a very white face, and saw what was
left of Nag, and Rikki-tikki dragged himself to Teddy's bedroom and
spent half the rest of the night shaking himself tenderly to find out
whether he really was broken into forty pieces, as he fancied.

When morning came he was very stiff, but well pleased with his doings.
"Now I have Nagaina to settle with, and she will be worse than five
Nags, and there's no knowing when the eggs she spoke of will hatch.
Goodness! I must go and see Darzee," he said.

Without waiting for breakfast, Rikki-tikki ran to the thornbush where
Darzee was singing a song of triumph at the top of his voice. The news
of Nag's death was all over the garden, for the sweeper had thrown the
body on the rubbish-heap.

"Oh, you stupid tuft of feathers!" said Rikki-tikki angrily. "Is this
the time to sing?"

"Nag is dead--is dead--is dead!" sang Darzee. "The valiant Rikki-tikki
caught him by the head and held fast. The big man brought the
bang-stick, and Nag fell in two pieces! He will never eat my babies
again."

"All that's true enough. But where's Nagaina?" said Rikki-tikki, looking
carefully round him.

"Nagaina came to the bathroom sluice and called for Nag," Darzee went
on, "and Nag came out on the end of a stick--the sweeper picked him up
on the end of a stick and threw him upon the rubbish heap. Let us sing
about the great, the red-eyed Rikki-tikki!" And Darzee filled his throat
and sang.

"If I could get up to your nest, I'd roll your babies out!" said
Rikki-tikki. "You don't know when to do the right thing at the right
time. You're safe enough in your nest there, but it's war for me down
here. Stop singing a minute, Darzee."

"For the great, the beautiful Rikki-tikki's sake I will stop," said
Darzee. "What is it, O Killer of the terrible Nag?"

"Where is Nagaina, for the third time?"

"On the rubbish heap by the stables, mourning for Nag. Great is
Rikki-tikki with the white teeth."

"Bother my white teeth! Have you ever heard where she keeps her eggs?"

"In the melon bed, on the end nearest the wall, where the sun strikes
nearly all day. She hid them there weeks ago."

"And you never thought it worth while to tell me? The end nearest the
wall, you said?"

"Rikki-tikki, you are not going to eat her eggs?"

"Not eat exactly; no. Darzee, if you have a grain of sense you will fly
off to the stables and pretend that your wing is broken, and let Nagaina
chase you away to this bush. I must get to the melon-bed, and if I went
there now she'd see me."

Darzee was a feather-brained little fellow who could never hold more
than one idea at a time in his head. And just because he knew that
Nagaina's children were born in eggs like his own, he didn't think at
first that it was fair to kill them. But his wife was a sensible bird,
and she knew that cobra's eggs meant young cobras later on. So she flew
off from the nest, and left Darzee to keep the babies warm, and continue
his song about the death of Nag. Darzee was very like a man in some
ways.

She fluttered in front of Nagaina by the rubbish heap and cried out,
"Oh, my wing is broken! The boy in the house threw a stone at me and
broke it." Then she fluttered more desperately than ever.

Nagaina lifted up her head and hissed, "You warned Rikki-tikki when I
would have killed him. Indeed and truly, you've chosen a bad place to
be lame in." And she moved toward Darzee's wife, slipping along over the
dust.

"The boy broke it with a stone!" shrieked Darzee's wife.

"Well! It may be some consolation to you when you're dead to know that I
shall settle accounts with the boy. My husband lies on the rubbish heap
this morning, but before night the boy in the house will lie very still.
What is the use of running away? I am sure to catch you. Little fool,
look at me!"

Darzee's wife knew better than to do that, for a bird who looks at a
snake's eyes gets so frightened that she cannot move. Darzee's wife
fluttered on, piping sorrowfully, and never leaving the ground, and
Nagaina quickened her pace.

Rikki-tikki heard them going up the path from the stables, and he raced
for the end of the melon patch near the wall. There, in the warm litter
above the melons, very cunningly hidden, he found twenty-five eggs,
about the size of a bantam's eggs, but with whitish skin instead of
shell.

"I was not a day too soon," he said, for he could see the baby cobras
curled up inside the skin, and he knew that the minute they were hatched
they could each kill a man or a mongoose. He bit off the tops of the
eggs as fast as he could, taking care to crush the young cobras, and
turned over the litter from time to time to see whether he had missed
any. At last there were only three eggs left, and Rikki-tikki began to
chuckle to himself, when he heard Darzee's wife screaming:

"Rikki-tikki, I led Nagaina toward the house, and she has gone into the
veranda, and--oh, come quickly--she means killing!"

Rikki-tikki smashed two eggs, and tumbled backward down the melon-bed
with the third egg in his mouth, and scuttled to the veranda as hard as
he could put foot to the ground. Teddy and his mother and father were
there at early breakfast, but Rikki-tikki saw that they were not eating
anything. They sat stone-still, and their faces were white. Nagaina was
coiled up on the matting by Teddy's chair, within easy striking distance
of Teddy's bare leg, and she was swaying to and fro, singing a song of
triumph.

"Son of the big man that killed Nag," she hissed, "stay still. I am not
ready yet. Wait a little. Keep very still, all you three! If you move I
strike, and if you do not move I strike. Oh, foolish people, who killed
my Nag!"

Teddy's eyes were fixed on his father, and all his father could do was
to whisper, "Sit still, Teddy. You mustn't move. Teddy, keep still."

Then Rikki-tikki came up and cried, "Turn round, Nagaina. Turn and
fight!"

"All in good time," said she, without moving her eyes. "I will settle my
account with you presently. Look at your friends, Rikki-tikki. They are
still and white. They are afraid. They dare not move, and if you come a
step nearer I strike."

"Look at your eggs," said Rikki-tikki, "in the melon bed near the wall.
Go and look, Nagaina!"

The big snake turned half around, and saw the egg on the veranda. "Ah-h!
Give it to me," she said.

Rikki-tikki put his paws one on each side of the egg, and his eyes were
blood-red. "What price for a snake's egg? For a young cobra? For a
young king cobra? For the last--the very last of the brood? The ants are
eating all the others down by the melon bed."

Nagaina spun clear round, forgetting everything for the sake of the one
egg. Rikki-tikki saw Teddy's father shoot out a big hand, catch Teddy
by the shoulder, and drag him across the little table with the tea-cups,
safe and out of reach of Nagaina.

"Tricked! Tricked! Tricked! Rikk-tck-tck!" chuckled Rikki-tikki. "The
boy is safe, and it was I--I--I that caught Nag by the hood last night
in the bathroom." Then he began to jump up and down, all four feet
together, his head close to the floor. "He threw me to and fro, but he
could not shake me off. He was dead before the big man blew him in two.
I did it! Rikki-tikki-tck-tck! Come then, Nagaina. Come and fight with
me. You shall not be a widow long."

Nagaina saw that she had lost her chance of killing Teddy, and the egg
lay between Rikki-tikki's paws. "Give me the egg, Rikki-tikki. Give me
the last of my eggs, and I will go away and never come back," she said,
lowering her hood.

"Yes, you will go away, and you will never come back. For you will go
to the rubbish heap with Nag. Fight, widow! The big man has gone for his
gun! Fight!"

Rikki-tikki was bounding all round Nagaina, keeping just out of reach
of her stroke, his little eyes like hot coals. Nagaina gathered herself
together and flung out at him. Rikki-tikki jumped up and backward. Again
and again and again she struck, and each time her head came with a whack
on the matting of the veranda and she gathered herself together like a
watch spring. Then Rikki-tikki danced in a circle to get behind her, and
Nagaina spun round to keep her head to his head, so that the rustle of
her tail on the matting sounded like dry leaves blown along by the wind.

He had forgotten the egg. It still lay on the veranda, and Nagaina came
nearer and nearer to it, till at last, while Rikki-tikki was drawing
breath, she caught it in her mouth, turned to the veranda steps, and
flew like an arrow down the path, with Rikki-tikki behind her. When
the cobra runs for her life, she goes like a whip-lash flicked across a
horse's neck.

Rikki-tikki knew that he must catch her, or all the trouble would begin
again. She headed straight for the long grass by the thorn-bush, and as
he was running Rikki-tikki heard Darzee still singing his foolish little
song of triumph. But Darzee's wife was wiser. She flew off her nest
as Nagaina came along, and flapped her wings about Nagaina's head. If
Darzee had helped they might have turned her, but Nagaina only lowered
her hood and went on. Still, the instant's delay brought Rikki-tikki up
to her, and as she plunged into the rat-hole where she and Nag used to
live, his little white teeth were clenched on her tail, and he went down
with her--and very few mongooses, however wise and old they may be,
care to follow a cobra into its hole. It was dark in the hole; and
Rikki-tikki never knew when it might open out and give Nagaina room to
turn and strike at him. He held on savagely, and stuck out his feet to
act as brakes on the dark slope of the hot, moist earth.

Then the grass by the mouth of the hole stopped waving, and Darzee said,
"It is all over with Rikki-tikki! We must sing his death song. Valiant
Rikki-tikki is dead! For Nagaina will surely kill him underground."

So he sang a very mournful song that he made up on the spur of the
minute, and just as he got to the most touching part, the grass quivered
again, and Rikki-tikki, covered with dirt, dragged himself out of the
hole leg by leg, licking his whiskers. Darzee stopped with a little
shout. Rikki-tikki shook some of the dust out of his fur and sneezed.
"It is all over," he said. "The widow will never come out again." And
the red ants that live between the grass stems heard him, and began to
troop down one after another to see if he had spoken the truth.

Rikki-tikki curled himself up in the grass and slept where he was--slept
and slept till it was late in the afternoon, for he had done a hard
day's work.

"Now," he said, when he awoke, "I will go back to the house. Tell the
Coppersmith, Darzee, and he will tell the garden that Nagaina is dead."

The Coppersmith is a bird who makes a noise exactly like the beating of
a little hammer on a copper pot; and the reason he is always making it
is because he is the town crier to every Indian garden, and tells all
the news to everybody who cares to listen. As Rikki-tikki went up the
path, he heard his "attention" notes like a tiny dinner gong, and
then the steady "Ding-dong-tock! Nag is dead--dong! Nagaina is dead!
Ding-dong-tock!" That set all the birds in the garden singing, and the
frogs croaking, for Nag and Nagaina used to eat frogs as well as little
birds.

When Rikki got to the house, Teddy and Teddy's mother (she looked very
white still, for she had been fainting) and Teddy's father came out and
almost cried over him; and that night he ate all that was given him till
he could eat no more, and went to bed on Teddy's shoulder, where Teddy's
mother saw him when she came to look late at night.

"He saved our lives and Teddy's life," she said to her husband. "Just
think, he saved all our lives."

Rikki-tikki woke up with a jump, for the mongooses are light sleepers.

"Oh, it's you," said he. "What are you bothering for? All the cobras are
dead. And if they weren't, I'm here."

Rikki-tikki had a right to be proud of himself. But he did not grow too
proud, and he kept that garden as a mongoose should keep it, with tooth
and jump and spring and bite, till never a cobra dared show its head
inside the walls.




Darzee's Chant

     (Sung in honor of Rikki-tikki-tavi)

     Singer and tailor am I--
        Doubled the joys that I know--
     Proud of my lilt to the sky,
        Proud of the house that I sew--
     Over and under, so weave I my music--so weave I the house that I
        sew.

     Sing to your fledglings again,
        Mother, oh lift up your head!
     Evil that plagued us is slain,
        Death in the garden lies dead.
     Terror that hid in the roses is impotent--flung on the dung-hill
     and dead!

     Who has delivered us, who?
        Tell me his nest and his name.
     Rikki, the valiant, the true,
        Tikki, with eyeballs of flame,
     Rikk-tikki-tikki, the ivory-fanged, the hunter with eyeballs of
     flame!

     Give him the Thanks of the Birds,
        Bowing with tail feathers spread!
     Praise him with nightingale words--
        Nay, I will praise him instead.
     Hear!  I will sing you the praise of the bottle-tailed Rikki, with
     eyeballs of red!

     (Here Rikki-tikki interrupted, and the rest of the song is
     lost.)




Toomai of the Elephants

     I will remember what I was, I am sick of rope and chain--
        I will remember my old strength and all my forest affairs.
     I will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar-cane:
        I will go out to my own kind, and the wood-folk in their lairs.

     I will go out until the day, until the morning break--
        Out to the wind's untainted kiss, the water's clean caress;
     I will forget my ankle-ring and snap my picket stake.
        I will revisit my lost loves, and playmates masterless!

Kala Nag, which means Black Snake, had served the Indian Government in
every way that an elephant could serve it for forty-seven years, and as
he was fully twenty years old when he was caught, that makes him nearly
seventy--a ripe age for an elephant. He remembered pushing, with a big
leather pad on his forehead, at a gun stuck in deep mud, and that was
before the Afghan War of 1842, and he had not then come to his full
strength.

His mother Radha Pyari,--Radha the darling,--who had been caught in the
same drive with Kala Nag, told him, before his little milk tusks had
dropped out, that elephants who were afraid always got hurt. Kala Nag
knew that that advice was good, for the first time that he saw a shell
burst he backed, screaming, into a stand of piled rifles, and the
bayonets pricked him in all his softest places. So, before he was
twenty-five, he gave up being afraid, and so he was the best-loved
and the best-looked-after elephant in the service of the Government of
India. He had carried tents, twelve hundred pounds' weight of tents, on
the march in Upper India. He had been hoisted into a ship at the end of
a steam crane and taken for days across the water, and made to carry a
mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from India,
and had seen the Emperor Theodore lying dead in Magdala, and had
come back again in the steamer entitled, so the soldiers said, to the
Abyssinian War medal. He had seen his fellow elephants die of cold and
epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place called Ali Musjid,
ten years later; and afterward he had been sent down thousands of miles
south to haul and pile big balks of teak in the timberyards at Moulmein.
There he had half killed an insubordinate young elephant who was
shirking his fair share of work.

After that he was taken off timber-hauling, and employed, with a few
score other elephants who were trained to the business, in helping to
catch wild elephants among the Garo hills. Elephants are very strictly
preserved by the Indian Government. There is one whole department which
does nothing else but hunt them, and catch them, and break them in, and
send them up and down the country as they are needed for work.

Kala Nag stood ten fair feet at the shoulders, and his tusks had been
cut off short at five feet, and bound round the ends, to prevent them
splitting, with bands of copper; but he could do more with those stumps
than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpened ones. When,
after weeks and weeks of cautious driving of scattered elephants across
the hills, the forty or fifty wild monsters were driven into the last
stockade, and the big drop gate, made of tree trunks lashed together,
jarred down behind them, Kala Nag, at the word of command, would go
into that flaring, trumpeting pandemonium (generally at night, when
the flicker of the torches made it difficult to judge distances), and,
picking out the biggest and wildest tusker of the mob, would hammer
him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the backs of the other
elephants roped and tied the smaller ones.

There was nothing in the way of fighting that Kala Nag, the old wise
Black Snake, did not know, for he had stood up more than once in his
time to the charge of the wounded tiger, and, curling up his soft trunk
to be out of harm's way, had knocked the springing brute sideways in
mid-air with a quick sickle cut of his head, that he had invented all by
himself; had knocked him over, and kneeled upon him with his huge knees
till the life went out with a gasp and a howl, and there was only a
fluffy striped thing on the ground for Kala Nag to pull by the tail.

"Yes," said Big Toomai, his driver, the son of Black Toomai who had
taken him to Abyssinia, and grandson of Toomai of the Elephants who had
seen him caught, "there is nothing that the Black Snake fears except me.
He has seen three generations of us feed him and groom him, and he will
live to see four."

"He is afraid of me also," said Little Toomai, standing up to his full
height of four feet, with only one rag upon him. He was ten years old,
the eldest son of Big Toomai, and, according to custom, he would take
his father's place on Kala Nag's neck when he grew up, and would handle
the heavy iron ankus, the elephant goad, that had been worn smooth by
his father, and his grandfather, and his great-grandfather.

He knew what he was talking of; for he had been born under Kala Nag's
shadow, had played with the end of his trunk before he could walk, had
taken him down to water as soon as he could walk, and Kala Nag would no
more have dreamed of disobeying his shrill little orders than he would
have dreamed of killing him on that day when Big Toomai carried the
little brown baby under Kala Nag's tusks, and told him to salute his
master that was to be.

"Yes," said Little Toomai, "he is afraid of me," and he took long
strides up to Kala Nag, called him a fat old pig, and made him lift up
his feet one after the other.

"Wah!" said Little Toomai, "thou art a big elephant," and he wagged his
fluffy head, quoting his father. "The Government may pay for elephants,
but they belong to us mahouts. When thou art old, Kala Nag, there will
come some rich rajah, and he will buy thee from the Government, on
account of thy size and thy manners, and then thou wilt have nothing
to do but to carry gold earrings in thy ears, and a gold howdah on thy
back, and a red cloth covered with gold on thy sides, and walk at the
head of the processions of the King. Then I shall sit on thy neck, O
Kala Nag, with a silver ankus, and men will run before us with golden
sticks, crying, `Room for the King's elephant!' That will be good, Kala
Nag, but not so good as this hunting in the jungles."

"Umph!" said Big Toomai. "Thou art a boy, and as wild as a buffalo-calf.
This running up and down among the hills is not the best Government
service. I am getting old, and I do not love wild elephants. Give me
brick elephant lines, one stall to each elephant, and big stumps to tie
them to safely, and flat, broad roads to exercise upon, instead of this
come-and-go camping. Aha, the Cawnpore barracks were good. There was a
bazaar close by, and only three hours' work a day."

Little Toomai remembered the Cawnpore elephant-lines and said nothing.
He very much preferred the camp life, and hated those broad, flat roads,
with the daily grubbing for grass in the forage reserve, and the long
hours when there was nothing to do except to watch Kala Nag fidgeting in
his pickets.

What Little Toomai liked was to scramble up bridle paths that only an
elephant could take; the dip into the valley below; the glimpses of the
wild elephants browsing miles away; the rush of the frightened pig and
peacock under Kala Nag's feet; the blinding warm rains, when all the
hills and valleys smoked; the beautiful misty mornings when nobody knew
where they would camp that night; the steady, cautious drive of the wild
elephants, and the mad rush and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night's
drive, when the elephants poured into the stockade like boulders in a
landslide, found that they could not get out, and flung themselves at
the heavy posts only to be driven back by yells and flaring torches and
volleys of blank cartridge.

Even a little boy could be of use there, and Toomai was as useful as
three boys. He would get his torch and wave it, and yell with the
best. But the really good time came when the driving out began, and the
Keddah--that is, the stockade--looked like a picture of the end of the
world, and men had to make signs to one another, because they could not
hear themselves speak. Then Little Toomai would climb up to the top of
one of the quivering stockade posts, his sun-bleached brown hair flying
loose all over his shoulders, and he looking like a goblin in the
torch-light. And as soon as there was a lull you could hear his
high-pitched yells of encouragement to Kala Nag, above the trumpeting
and crashing, and snapping of ropes, and groans of the tethered
elephants. "Mael, mael, Kala Nag! (Go on, go on, Black Snake!) Dant do!
(Give him the tusk!) Somalo! Somalo! (Careful, careful!) Maro! Mar! (Hit
him, hit him!) Mind the post! Arre! Arre! Hai! Yai! Kya-a-ah!" he would
shout, and the big fight between Kala Nag and the wild elephant would
sway to and fro across the Keddah, and the old elephant catchers would
wipe the sweat out of their eyes, and find time to nod to Little Toomai
wriggling with joy on the top of the posts.

He did more than wriggle. One night he slid down from the post and
slipped in between the elephants and threw up the loose end of a rope,
which had dropped, to a driver who was trying to get a purchase on
the leg of a kicking young calf (calves always give more trouble than
full-grown animals). Kala Nag saw him, caught him in his trunk, and
handed him up to Big Toomai, who slapped him then and there, and put him
back on the post.

Next morning he gave him a scolding and said, "Are not good brick
elephant lines and a little tent carrying enough, that thou must needs
go elephant catching on thy own account, little worthless? Now those
foolish hunters, whose pay is less than my pay, have spoken to Petersen
Sahib of the matter." Little Toomai was frightened. He did not know much
of white men, but Petersen Sahib was the greatest white man in the world
to him. He was the head of all the Keddah operations--the man who caught
all the elephants for the Government of India, and who knew more about
the ways of elephants than any living man.

"What--what will happen?" said Little Toomai.

"Happen! The worst that can happen. Petersen Sahib is a madman. Else why
should he go hunting these wild devils? He may even require thee to be
an elephant catcher, to sleep anywhere in these fever-filled jungles,
and at last to be trampled to death in the Keddah. It is well that this
nonsense ends safely. Next week the catching is over, and we of the
plains are sent back to our stations. Then we will march on smooth
roads, and forget all this hunting. But, son, I am angry that thou
shouldst meddle in the business that belongs to these dirty Assamese
jungle folk. Kala Nag will obey none but me, so I must go with him into
the Keddah, but he is only a fighting elephant, and he does not help
to rope them. So I sit at my ease, as befits a mahout,--not a mere
hunter,--a mahout, I say, and a man who gets a pension at the end of
his service. Is the family of Toomai of the Elephants to be trodden
underfoot in the dirt of a Keddah? Bad one! Wicked one! Worthless son!
Go and wash Kala Nag and attend to his ears, and see that there are no
thorns in his feet. Or else Petersen Sahib will surely catch thee and
make thee a wild hunter--a follower of elephant's foot tracks, a jungle
bear. Bah! Shame! Go!"

Little Toomai went off without saying a word, but he told Kala Nag all
his grievances while he was examining his feet. "No matter," said Little
Toomai, turning up the fringe of Kala Nag's huge right ear. "They
have said my name to Petersen Sahib, and perhaps--and perhaps--and
perhaps--who knows? Hai! That is a big thorn that I have pulled out!"

The next few days were spent in getting the elephants together, in
walking the newly caught wild elephants up and down between a couple of
tame ones to prevent them giving too much trouble on the downward march
to the plains, and in taking stock of the blankets and ropes and things
that had been worn out or lost in the forest.

Petersen Sahib came in on his clever she-elephant Pudmini; he had been
paying off other camps among the hills, for the season was coming to an
end, and there was a native clerk sitting at a table under a tree, to
pay the drivers their wages. As each man was paid he went back to his
elephant, and joined the line that stood ready to start. The catchers,
and hunters, and beaters, the men of the regular Keddah, who stayed in
the jungle year in and year out, sat on the backs of the elephants that
belonged to Petersen Sahib's permanent force, or leaned against the
trees with their guns across their arms, and made fun of the drivers who
were going away, and laughed when the newly caught elephants broke the
line and ran about.

Big Toomai went up to the clerk with Little Toomai behind him, and
Machua Appa, the head tracker, said in an undertone to a friend of his,
"There goes one piece of good elephant stuff at least. 'Tis a pity to
send that young jungle-cock to molt in the plains."

Now Petersen Sahib had ears all over him, as a man must have who listens
to the most silent of all living things--the wild elephant. He turned
where he was lying all along on Pudmini's back and said, "What is that?
I did not know of a man among the plains-drivers who had wit enough to
rope even a dead elephant."

"This is not a man, but a boy. He went into the Keddah at the last
drive, and threw Barmao there the rope, when we were trying to get that
young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother."

Machua Appa pointed at Little Toomai, and Petersen Sahib looked, and
Little Toomai bowed to the earth.

"He throw a rope? He is smaller than a picket-pin. Little one, what is
thy name?" said Petersen Sahib.

Little Toomai was too frightened to speak, but Kala Nag was behind him,
and Toomai made a sign with his hand, and the elephant caught him up in
his trunk and held him level with Pudmini's forehead, in front of the
great Petersen Sahib. Then Little Toomai covered his face with his
hands, for he was only a child, and except where elephants were
concerned, he was just as bashful as a child could be.

"Oho!" said Petersen Sahib, smiling underneath his mustache, "and why
didst thou teach thy elephant that trick? Was it to help thee steal
green corn from the roofs of the houses when the ears are put out to
dry?"

"Not green corn, Protector of the Poor,--melons," said Little Toomai,
and all the men sitting about broke into a roar of laughter. Most of
them had taught their elephants that trick when they were boys. Little
Toomai was hanging eight feet up in the air, and he wished very much
that he were eight feet underground.

"He is Toomai, my son, Sahib," said Big Toomai, scowling. "He is a very
bad boy, and he will end in a jail, Sahib."

"Of that I have my doubts," said Petersen Sahib. "A boy who can face a
full Keddah at his age does not end in jails. See, little one, here are
four annas to spend in sweetmeats because thou hast a little head under
that great thatch of hair. In time thou mayest become a hunter too." Big
Toomai scowled more than ever. "Remember, though, that Keddahs are not
good for children to play in," Petersen Sahib went on.

"Must I never go there, Sahib?" asked Little Toomai with a big gasp.

"Yes." Petersen Sahib smiled again. "When thou hast seen the elephants
dance. That is the proper time. Come to me when thou hast seen the
elephants dance, and then I will let thee go into all the Keddahs."

There was another roar of laughter, for that is an old joke among
elephant-catchers, and it means just never. There are great cleared flat
places hidden away in the forests that are called elephants' ball-rooms,
but even these are only found by accident, and no man has ever seen the
elephants dance. When a driver boasts of his skill and bravery the other
drivers say, "And when didst thou see the elephants dance?"

Kala Nag put Little Toomai down, and he bowed to the earth again and
went away with his father, and gave the silver four-anna piece to his
mother, who was nursing his baby brother, and they all were put up on
Kala Nag's back, and the line of grunting, squealing elephants rolled
down the hill path to the plains. It was a very lively march on account
of the new elephants, who gave trouble at every ford, and needed coaxing
or beating every other minute.

Big Toomai prodded Kala Nag spitefully, for he was very angry, but
Little Toomai was too happy to speak. Petersen Sahib had noticed him,
and given him money, so he felt as a private soldier would feel if he
had been called out of the ranks and praised by his commander-in-chief.

"What did Petersen Sahib mean by the elephant dance?" he said, at last,
softly to his mother.

Big Toomai heard him and grunted. "That thou shouldst never be one of
these hill buffaloes of trackers. That was what he meant. Oh, you in
front, what is blocking the way?"

An Assamese driver, two or three elephants ahead, turned round angrily,
crying: "Bring up Kala Nag, and knock this youngster of mine into good
behavior. Why should Petersen Sahib have chosen me to go down with you
donkeys of the rice fields? Lay your beast alongside, Toomai, and
let him prod with his tusks. By all the Gods of the Hills, these new
elephants are possessed, or else they can smell their companions in the
jungle." Kala Nag hit the new elephant in the ribs and knocked the
wind out of him, as Big Toomai said, "We have swept the hills of wild
elephants at the last catch. It is only your carelessness in driving.
Must I keep order along the whole line?"

"Hear him!" said the other driver. "We have swept the hills! Ho! Ho! You
are very wise, you plains people. Anyone but a mud-head who never saw
the jungle would know that they know that the drives are ended for the
season. Therefore all the wild elephants to-night will--but why should I
waste wisdom on a river-turtle?"

"What will they do?" Little Toomai called out.

"Ohe, little one. Art thou there? Well, I will tell thee, for thou hast
a cool head. They will dance, and it behooves thy father, who has
swept all the hills of all the elephants, to double-chain his pickets
to-night."

"What talk is this?" said Big Toomai. "For forty years, father and son,
we have tended elephants, and we have never heard such moonshine about
dances."

"Yes; but a plainsman who lives in a hut knows only the four walls
of his hut. Well, leave thy elephants unshackled tonight and see what
comes. As for their dancing, I have seen the place where--Bapree-bap!
How many windings has the Dihang River? Here is another ford, and we
must swim the calves. Stop still, you behind there."

And in this way, talking and wrangling and splashing through the rivers,
they made their first march to a sort of receiving camp for the new
elephants. But they lost their tempers long before they got there.

Then the elephants were chained by their hind legs to their big stumps
of pickets, and extra ropes were fitted to the new elephants, and the
fodder was piled before them, and the hill drivers went back to Petersen
Sahib through the afternoon light, telling the plains drivers to be
extra careful that night, and laughing when the plains drivers asked the
reason.

Little Toomai attended to Kala Nag's supper, and as evening fell,
wandered through the camp, unspeakably happy, in search of a tom-tom.
When an Indian child's heart is full, he does not run about and make a
noise in an irregular fashion. He sits down to a sort of revel all by
himself. And Little Toomai had been spoken to by Petersen Sahib! If he
had not found what he wanted, I believe he would have been ill. But the
sweetmeat seller in the camp lent him a little tom-tom--a drum beaten
with the flat of the hand--and he sat down, cross-legged, before Kala
Nag as the stars began to come out, the tom-tom in his lap, and he
thumped and he thumped and he thumped, and the more he thought of the
great honor that had been done to him, the more he thumped, all alone
among the elephant fodder. There was no tune and no words, but the
thumping made him happy.

The new elephants strained at their ropes, and squealed and trumpeted
from time to time, and he could hear his mother in the camp hut putting
his small brother to sleep with an old, old song about the great God
Shiv, who once told all the animals what they should eat. It is a very
soothing lullaby, and the first verse says:

     Shiv, who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,
     Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,
     Gave to each his portion, food and toil and fate,
     From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.
        All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
     Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all--
     Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
     And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!

Little Toomai came in with a joyous tunk-a-tunk at the end of each
verse, till he felt sleepy and stretched himself on the fodder at Kala
Nag's side. At last the elephants began to lie down one after another
as is their custom, till only Kala Nag at the right of the line was
left standing up; and he rocked slowly from side to side, his ears put
forward to listen to the night wind as it blew very slowly across the
hills. The air was full of all the night noises that, taken together,
make one big silence--the click of one bamboo stem against the other,
the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth, the scratch and squawk
of a half-waked bird (birds are awake in the night much more often than
we imagine), and the fall of water ever so far away. Little Toomai slept
for some time, and when he waked it was brilliant moonlight, and Kala
Nag was still standing up with his ears cocked. Little Toomai turned,
rustling in the fodder, and watched the curve of his big back against
half the stars in heaven, and while he watched he heard, so far away
that it sounded no more than a pinhole of noise pricked through the
stillness, the "hoot-toot" of a wild elephant.

All the elephants in the lines jumped up as if they had been shot, and
their grunts at last waked the sleeping mahouts, and they came out and
drove in the picket pegs with big mallets, and tightened this rope and
knotted that till all was quiet. One new elephant had nearly grubbed up
his picket, and Big Toomai took off Kala Nag's leg chain and shackled
that elephant fore-foot to hind-foot, but slipped a loop of grass string
round Kala Nag's leg, and told him to remember that he was tied fast. He
knew that he and his father and his grandfather had done the very same
thing hundreds of times before. Kala Nag did not answer to the order
by gurgling, as he usually did. He stood still, looking out across the
moonlight, his head a little raised and his ears spread like fans, up to
the great folds of the Garo hills.

"Tend to him if he grows restless in the night," said Big Toomai to
Little Toomai, and he went into the hut and slept. Little Toomai was
just going to sleep, too, when he heard the coir string snap with a
little "tang," and Kala Nag rolled out of his pickets as slowly and as
silently as a cloud rolls out of the mouth of a valley. Little Toomai
pattered after him, barefooted, down the road in the moonlight, calling
under his breath, "Kala Nag! Kala Nag! Take me with you, O Kala Nag!"
The elephant turned, without a sound, took three strides back to the
boy in the moonlight, put down his trunk, swung him up to his neck,
and almost before Little Toomai had settled his knees, slipped into the
forest.

There was one blast of furious trumpeting from the lines, and then the
silence shut down on everything, and Kala Nag began to move. Sometimes
a tuft of high grass washed along his sides as a wave washes along the
sides of a ship, and sometimes a cluster of wild-pepper vines would
scrape along his back, or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder
touched it. But between those times he moved absolutely without any
sound, drifting through the thick Garo forest as though it had been
smoke. He was going uphill, but though Little Toomai watched the stars
in the rifts of the trees, he could not tell in what direction.

Then Kala Nag reached the crest of the ascent and stopped for a minute,
and Little Toomai could see the tops of the trees lying all speckled and
furry under the moonlight for miles and miles, and the blue-white mist
over the river in the hollow. Toomai leaned forward and looked, and he
felt that the forest was awake below him--awake and alive and crowded.
A big brown fruit-eating bat brushed past his ear; a porcupine's quills
rattled in the thicket; and in the darkness between the tree stems he
heard a hog-bear digging hard in the moist warm earth, and snuffing as
it digged.

Then the branches closed over his head again, and Kala Nag began to go
down into the valley--not quietly this time, but as a runaway gun goes
down a steep bank--in one rush. The huge limbs moved as steadily as
pistons, eight feet to each stride, and the wrinkled skin of the elbow
points rustled. The undergrowth on either side of him ripped with a
noise like torn canvas, and the saplings that he heaved away right and
left with his shoulders sprang back again and banged him on the flank,
and great trails of creepers, all matted together, hung from his tusks
as he threw his head from side to side and plowed out his pathway. Then
Little Toomai laid himself down close to the great neck lest a swinging
bough should sweep him to the ground, and he wished that he were back in
the lines again.

The grass began to get squashy, and Kala Nag's feet sucked and squelched
as he put them down, and the night mist at the bottom of the valley
chilled Little Toomai. There was a splash and a trample, and the rush of
running water, and Kala Nag strode through the bed of a river, feeling
his way at each step. Above the noise of the water, as it swirled round
the elephant's legs, Little Toomai could hear more splashing and some
trumpeting both upstream and down--great grunts and angry snortings, and
all the mist about him seemed to be full of rolling, wavy shadows.

"Ai!" he said, half aloud, his teeth chattering. "The elephant-folk are
out tonight. It is the dance, then!"

Kala Nag swashed out of the water, blew his trunk clear, and began
another climb. But this time he was not alone, and he had not to make
his path. That was made already, six feet wide, in front of him, where
the bent jungle-grass was trying to recover itself and stand up. Many
elephants must have gone that way only a few minutes before. Little
Toomai looked back, and behind him a great wild tusker with his little
pig's eyes glowing like hot coals was just lifting himself out of the
misty river. Then the trees closed up again, and they went on and up,
with trumpetings and crashings, and the sound of breaking branches on
every side of them.

At last Kala Nag stood still between two tree-trunks at the very top
of the hill. They were part of a circle of trees that grew round an
irregular space of some three or four acres, and in all that space, as
Little Toomai could see, the ground had been trampled down as hard as
a brick floor. Some trees grew in the center of the clearing, but their
bark was rubbed away, and the white wood beneath showed all shiny and
polished in the patches of moonlight. There were creepers hanging from
the upper branches, and the bells of the flowers of the creepers, great
waxy white things like convolvuluses, hung down fast asleep. But
within the limits of the clearing there was not a single blade of
green--nothing but the trampled earth.

The moonlight showed it all iron gray, except where some elephants
stood upon it, and their shadows were inky black. Little Toomai looked,
holding his breath, with his eyes starting out of his head, and as he
looked, more and more and more elephants swung out into the open from
between the tree trunks. Little Toomai could only count up to ten, and
he counted again and again on his fingers till he lost count of the
tens, and his head began to swim. Outside the clearing he could hear
them crashing in the undergrowth as they worked their way up the
hillside, but as soon as they were within the circle of the tree trunks
they moved like ghosts.

There were white-tusked wild males, with fallen leaves and nuts and
twigs lying in the wrinkles of their necks and the folds of their ears;
fat, slow-footed she-elephants, with restless, little pinky black
calves only three or four feet high running under their stomachs; young
elephants with their tusks just beginning to show, and very proud of
them; lanky, scraggy old-maid elephants, with their hollow anxious
faces, and trunks like rough bark; savage old bull elephants, scarred
from shoulder to flank with great weals and cuts of bygone fights,
and the caked dirt of their solitary mud baths dropping from their
shoulders; and there was one with a broken tusk and the marks of the
full-stroke, the terrible drawing scrape, of a tiger's claws on his
side.

They were standing head to head, or walking to and fro across the ground
in couples, or rocking and swaying all by themselves--scores and scores
of elephants.

Toomai knew that so long as he lay still on Kala Nag's neck nothing
would happen to him, for even in the rush and scramble of a Keddah drive
a wild elephant does not reach up with his trunk and drag a man off the
neck of a tame elephant. And these elephants were not thinking of men
that night. Once they started and put their ears forward when they heard
the chinking of a leg iron in the forest, but it was Pudmini, Petersen
Sahib's pet elephant, her chain snapped short off, grunting, snuffling
up the hillside. She must have broken her pickets and come straight from
Petersen Sahib's camp; and Little Toomai saw another elephant, one that
he did not know, with deep rope galls on his back and breast. He, too,
must have run away from some camp in the hills about.

At last there was no sound of any more elephants moving in the forest,
and Kala Nag rolled out from his station between the trees and went into
the middle of the crowd, clucking and gurgling, and all the elephants
began to talk in their own tongue, and to move about.

Still lying down, Little Toomai looked down upon scores and scores of
broad backs, and wagging ears, and tossing trunks, and little rolling
eyes. He heard the click of tusks as they crossed other tusks by
accident, and the dry rustle of trunks twined together, and the chafing
of enormous sides and shoulders in the crowd, and the incessant flick
and hissh of the great tails. Then a cloud came over the moon, and he
sat in black darkness. But the quiet, steady hustling and pushing and
gurgling went on just the same. He knew that there were elephants all
round Kala Nag, and that there was no chance of backing him out of the
assembly; so he set his teeth and shivered. In a Keddah at least there
was torchlight and shouting, but here he was all alone in the dark, and
once a trunk came up and touched him on the knee.

Then an elephant trumpeted, and they all took it up for five or ten
terrible seconds. The dew from the trees above spattered down like rain
on the unseen backs, and a dull booming noise began, not very loud at
first, and Little Toomai could not tell what it was. But it grew and
grew, and Kala Nag lifted up one forefoot and then the other, and
brought them down on the ground--one-two, one-two, as steadily as
trip-hammers. The elephants were stamping all together now, and it
sounded like a war drum beaten at the mouth of a cave. The dew fell from
the trees till there was no more left to fall, and the booming went on,
and the ground rocked and shivered, and Little Toomai put his hands up
to his ears to shut out the sound. But it was all one gigantic jar that
ran through him--this stamp of hundreds of heavy feet on the raw earth.
Once or twice he could feel Kala Nag and all the others surge forward
a few strides, and the thumping would change to the crushing sound of
juicy green things being bruised, but in a minute or two the boom
of feet on hard earth began again. A tree was creaking and groaning
somewhere near him. He put out his arm and felt the bark, but Kala Nag
moved forward, still tramping, and he could not tell where he was in the
clearing. There was no sound from the elephants, except once, when two
or three little calves squeaked together. Then he heard a thump and a
shuffle, and the booming went on. It must have lasted fully two hours,
and Little Toomai ached in every nerve, but he knew by the smell of the
night air that the dawn was coming.

The morning broke in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hills,
and the booming stopped with the first ray, as though the light had
been an order. Before Little Toomai had got the ringing out of his head,
before even he had shifted his position, there was not an elephant in
sight except Kala Nag, Pudmini, and the elephant with the rope-galls,
and there was neither sign nor rustle nor whisper down the hillsides to
show where the others had gone.

Little Toomai stared again and again. The clearing, as he remembered it,
had grown in the night. More trees stood in the middle of it, but the
undergrowth and the jungle grass at the sides had been rolled back.
Little Toomai stared once more. Now he understood the trampling. The
elephants had stamped out more room--had stamped the thick grass and
juicy cane to trash, the trash into slivers, the slivers into tiny
fibers, and the fibers into hard earth.

"Wah!" said Little Toomai, and his eyes were very heavy. "Kala Nag, my
lord, let us keep by Pudmini and go to Petersen Sahib's camp, or I shall
drop from thy neck."

The third elephant watched the two go away, snorted, wheeled round, and
took his own path. He may have belonged to some little native king's
establishment, fifty or sixty or a hundred miles away.

Two hours later, as Petersen Sahib was eating early breakfast, his
elephants, who had been double chained that night, began to trumpet, and
Pudmini, mired to the shoulders, with Kala Nag, very footsore, shambled
into the camp. Little Toomai's face was gray and pinched, and his
hair was full of leaves and drenched with dew, but he tried to salute
Petersen Sahib, and cried faintly: "The dance--the elephant dance! I
have seen it, and--I die!" As Kala Nag sat down, he slid off his neck in
a dead faint.

But, since native children have no nerves worth speaking of, in two
hours he was lying very contentedly in Petersen Sahib's hammock with
Petersen Sahib's shooting-coat under his head, and a glass of warm milk,
a little brandy, with a dash of quinine, inside of him, and while the
old hairy, scarred hunters of the jungles sat three deep before him,
looking at him as though he were a spirit, he told his tale in short
words, as a child will, and wound up with:

"Now, if I lie in one word, send men to see, and they will find that the
elephant folk have trampled down more room in their dance-room, and
they will find ten and ten, and many times ten, tracks leading to that
dance-room. They made more room with their feet. I have seen it. Kala
Nag took me, and I saw. Also Kala Nag is very leg-weary!"

Little Toomai lay back and slept all through the long afternoon and into
the twilight, and while he slept Petersen Sahib and Machua Appa followed
the track of the two elephants for fifteen miles across the hills.
Petersen Sahib had spent eighteen years in catching elephants, and he
had only once before found such a dance-place. Machua Appa had no need
to look twice at the clearing to see what had been done there, or to
scratch with his toe in the packed, rammed earth.

"The child speaks truth," said he. "All this was done last night, and
I have counted seventy tracks crossing the river. See, Sahib, where
Pudmini's leg-iron cut the bark of that tree! Yes; she was there too."

They looked at one another and up and down, and they wondered. For the
ways of elephants are beyond the wit of any man, black or white, to
fathom.

"Forty years and five," said Machua Appa, "have I followed my lord, the
elephant, but never have I heard that any child of man had seen what
this child has seen. By all the Gods of the Hills, it is--what can we
say?" and he shook his head.

When they got back to camp it was time for the evening meal. Petersen
Sahib ate alone in his tent, but he gave orders that the camp should
have two sheep and some fowls, as well as a double ration of flour and
rice and salt, for he knew that there would be a feast.

Big Toomai had come up hotfoot from the camp in the plains to search for
his son and his elephant, and now that he had found them he looked at
them as though he were afraid of them both. And there was a feast by
the blazing campfires in front of the lines of picketed elephants,
and Little Toomai was the hero of it all. And the big brown elephant
catchers, the trackers and drivers and ropers, and the men who know all
the secrets of breaking the wildest elephants, passed him from one to
the other, and they marked his forehead with blood from the breast of a
newly killed jungle-cock, to show that he was a forester, initiated and
free of all the jungles.

And at last, when the flames died down, and the red light of the logs
made the elephants look as though they had been dipped in blood too,
Machua Appa, the head of all the drivers of all the Keddahs--Machua
Appa, Petersen Sahib's other self, who had never seen a made road in
forty years: Machua Appa, who was so great that he had no other name
than Machua Appa,--leaped to his feet, with Little Toomai held high in
the air above his head, and shouted: "Listen, my brothers. Listen, too,
you my lords in the lines there, for I, Machua Appa, am speaking! This
little one shall no more be called Little Toomai, but Toomai of the
Elephants, as his great-grandfather was called before him. What never
man has seen he has seen through the long night, and the favor of the
elephant-folk and of the Gods of the Jungles is with him. He shall
become a great tracker. He shall become greater than I, even I, Machua
Appa! He shall follow the new trail, and the stale trail, and the mixed
trail, with a clear eye! He shall take no harm in the Keddah when he
runs under their bellies to rope the wild tuskers; and if he slips
before the feet of the charging bull elephant, the bull elephant
shall know who he is and shall not crush him. Aihai! my lords in the
chains,"--he whirled up the line of pickets--"here is the little one
that has seen your dances in your hidden places,--the sight that never
man saw! Give him honor, my lords! Salaam karo, my children. Make your
salute to Toomai of the Elephants! Gunga Pershad, ahaa! Hira Guj, Birchi
Guj, Kuttar Guj, ahaa! Pudmini,--thou hast seen him at the dance, and
thou too, Kala Nag, my pearl among elephants!--ahaa! Together! To Toomai
of the Elephants. Barrao!"

And at that last wild yell the whole line flung up their trunks till the
tips touched their foreheads, and broke out into the full salute--the
crashing trumpet-peal that only the Viceroy of India hears, the Salaamut
of the Keddah.

But it was all for the sake of Little Toomai, who had seen what never
man had seen before--the dance of the elephants at night and alone in
the heart of the Garo hills!




Shiv and the Grasshopper

     (The song that Toomai's mother sang to the baby)

     Shiv, who poured the harvest and made the winds to blow,
     Sitting at the doorways of a day of long ago,
     Gave to each his portion, food and toil and fate,
     From the King upon the guddee to the Beggar at the gate.
        All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
        Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all,--
        Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
        And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!


     Wheat he gave to rich folk, millet to the poor,
     Broken scraps for holy men that beg from door to door;
     Battle to the tiger, carrion to the kite,
     And rags and bones to wicked wolves without the wall at night.
     Naught he found too lofty, none he saw too low--
     Parbati beside him watched them come and go;
     Thought to cheat her husband, turning Shiv to jest--
     Stole the little grasshopper and hid it in her breast.
        So she tricked him, Shiva the Preserver.
        Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  Turn and see.
        Tall are the camels, heavy are the kine,
        But this was Least of Little Things, O little son of mine!

     When the dole was ended, laughingly she said,
     "Master, of a million mouths, is not one unfed?"
     Laughing, Shiv made answer, "All have had their part,
     Even he, the little one, hidden 'neath thy heart."
     From her breast she plucked it, Parbati the thief,
     Saw the Least of Little Things gnawed a new-grown leaf!
     Saw and feared and wondered, making prayer to Shiv,
     Who hath surely given meat to all that live.
        All things made he--Shiva the Preserver.
        Mahadeo!  Mahadeo!  He made all,--
        Thorn for the camel, fodder for the kine,
        And mother's heart for sleepy head, O little son of mine!




Her Majesty's Servants

     You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three,
     But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee.
     You can twist it, you can turn it, you can plait it till you drop,
     But the way of Pilly Winky's not the way of Winkie Pop!

It had been raining heavily for one whole month--raining on a camp
of thirty thousand men and thousands of camels, elephants, horses,
bullocks, and mules all gathered together at a place called Rawal Pindi,
to be reviewed by the Viceroy of India. He was receiving a visit from
the Amir of Afghanistan--a wild king of a very wild country. The Amir
had brought with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who
had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in their lives--savage
men and savage horses from somewhere at the back of Central Asia. Every
night a mob of these horses would be sure to break their heel ropes and
stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark, or the camels
would break loose and run about and fall over the ropes of the tents,
and you can imagine how pleasant that was for men trying to go to sleep.
My tent lay far away from the camel lines, and I thought it was safe.
But one night a man popped his head in and shouted, "Get out, quick!
They're coming! My tent's gone!"

I knew who "they" were, so I put on my boots and waterproof and scuttled
out into the slush. Little Vixen, my fox terrier, went out through the
other side; and then there was a roaring and a grunting and bubbling,
and I saw the tent cave in, as the pole snapped, and begin to dance
about like a mad ghost. A camel had blundered into it, and wet and angry
as I was, I could not help laughing. Then I ran on, because I did not
know how many camels might have got loose, and before long I was out of
sight of the camp, plowing my way through the mud.

At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun, and by that knew I was
somewhere near the artillery lines where the cannon were stacked at
night. As I did not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and
the dark, I put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun, and made a
sort of wigwam with two or three rammers that I found, and lay along the
tail of another gun, wondering where Vixen had got to, and where I might
be.

Just as I was getting ready to go to sleep I heard a jingle of harness
and a grunt, and a mule passed me shaking his wet ears. He belonged to
a screw-gun battery, for I could hear the rattle of the straps and rings
and chains and things on his saddle pad. The screw-guns are tiny little
cannon made in two pieces, that are screwed together when the time comes
to use them. They are taken up mountains, anywhere that a mule can find
a road, and they are very useful for fighting in rocky country.

Behind the mule there was a camel, with his big soft feet squelching
and slipping in the mud, and his neck bobbing to and fro like a
strayed hen's. Luckily, I knew enough of beast language--not wild-beast
language, but camp-beast language, of course--from the natives to know
what he was saying.

He must have been the one that flopped into my tent, for he called to
the mule, "What shall I do? Where shall I go? I have fought with a white
thing that waved, and it took a stick and hit me on the neck." (That was
my broken tent pole, and I was very glad to know it.) "Shall we run on?"

"Oh, it was you," said the mule, "you and your friends, that have
been disturbing the camp? All right. You'll be beaten for this in the
morning. But I may as well give you something on account now."

I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed and caught the camel
two kicks in the ribs that rang like a drum. "Another time," he said,
"you'll know better than to run through a mule battery at night,
shouting `Thieves and fire!' Sit down, and keep your silly neck quiet."

The camel doubled up camel-fashion, like a two-foot rule, and sat down
whimpering. There was a regular beat of hoofs in the darkness, and a big
troop-horse cantered up as steadily as though he were on parade, jumped
a gun tail, and landed close to the mule.

"It's disgraceful," he said, blowing out his nostrils. "Those camels
have racketed through our lines again--the third time this week. How's a
horse to keep his condition if he isn't allowed to sleep. Who's here?"

"I'm the breech-piece mule of number two gun of the First Screw
Battery," said the mule, "and the other's one of your friends. He's
waked me up too. Who are you?"

"Number Fifteen, E troop, Ninth Lancers--Dick Cunliffe's horse. Stand
over a little, there."

"Oh, beg your pardon," said the mule. "It's too dark to see much. Aren't
these camels too sickening for anything? I walked out of my lines to get
a little peace and quiet here."

"My lords," said the camel humbly, "we dreamed bad dreams in the night,
and we were very much afraid. I am only a baggage camel of the 39th
Native Infantry, and I am not as brave as you are, my lords."

"Then why didn't you stay and carry baggage for the 39th Native
Infantry, instead of running all round the camp?" said the mule.

"They were such very bad dreams," said the camel. "I am sorry. Listen!
What is that? Shall we run on again?"

"Sit down," said the mule, "or you'll snap your long stick-legs between
the guns." He cocked one ear and listened. "Bullocks!" he said. "Gun
bullocks. On my word, you and your friends have waked the camp very
thoroughly. It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a gun-bullock."

I heard a chain dragging along the ground, and a yoke of the great sulky
white bullocks that drag the heavy siege guns when the elephants won't
go any nearer to the firing, came shouldering along together. And almost
stepping on the chain was another battery mule, calling wildly for
"Billy."

"That's one of our recruits," said the old mule to the troop horse.
"He's calling for me. Here, youngster, stop squealing. The dark never
hurt anybody yet."

The gun-bullocks lay down together and began chewing the cud, but the
young mule huddled close to Billy.

"Things!" he said. "Fearful and horrible, Billy! They came into our
lines while we were asleep. D'you think they'll kill us?"

"I've a very great mind to give you a number-one kicking," said Billy.
"The idea of a fourteen-hand mule with your training disgracing the
battery before this gentleman!"

"Gently, gently!" said the troop-horse. "Remember they are always like
this to begin with. The first time I ever saw a man (it was in Australia
when I was a three-year-old) I ran for half a day, and if I'd seen a
camel, I should have been running still."

Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry are brought to India from
Australia, and are broken in by the troopers themselves.

"True enough," said Billy. "Stop shaking, youngster. The first time
they put the full harness with all its chains on my back I stood on
my forelegs and kicked every bit of it off. I hadn't learned the real
science of kicking then, but the battery said they had never seen
anything like it."

"But this wasn't harness or anything that jingled," said the young mule.
"You know I don't mind that now, Billy. It was Things like trees, and
they fell up and down the lines and bubbled; and my head-rope broke, and
I couldn't find my driver, and I couldn't find you, Billy, so I ran off
with--with these gentlemen."

"H'm!" said Billy. "As soon as I heard the camels were loose I came away
on my own account. When a battery--a screw-gun mule calls gun-bullocks
gentlemen, he must be very badly shaken up. Who are you fellows on the
ground there?"

The gun bullocks rolled their cuds, and answered both together: "The
seventh yoke of the first gun of the Big Gun Battery. We were asleep
when the camels came, but when we were trampled on we got up and walked
away. It is better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed on good
bedding. We told your friend here that there was nothing to be afraid
of, but he knew so much that he thought otherwise. Wah!"

They went on chewing.

"That comes of being afraid," said Billy. "You get laughed at by
gun-bullocks. I hope you like it, young un."

The young mule's teeth snapped, and I heard him say something about not
being afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world. But the bullocks
only clicked their horns together and went on chewing.

"Now, don't be angry after you've been afraid. That's the worst kind
of cowardice," said the troop-horse. "Anybody can be forgiven for being
scared in the night, I think, if they see things they don't understand.
We've broken out of our pickets, again and again, four hundred and fifty
of us, just because a new recruit got to telling tales of whip snakes at
home in Australia till we were scared to death of the loose ends of our
head-ropes."

"That's all very well in camp," said Billy. "I'm not above stampeding
myself, for the fun of the thing, when I haven't been out for a day or
two. But what do you do on active service?"

"Oh, that's quite another set of new shoes," said the troop horse. "Dick
Cunliffe's on my back then, and drives his knees into me, and all I have
to do is to watch where I am putting my feet, and to keep my hind legs
well under me, and be bridle-wise."

"What's bridle-wise?" said the young mule.

"By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks," snorted the troop-horse, "do you
mean to say that you aren't taught to be bridle-wise in your business?
How can you do anything, unless you can spin round at once when the
rein is pressed on your neck? It means life or death to your man, and of
course that's life and death to you. Get round with your hind legs under
you the instant you feel the rein on your neck. If you haven't room to
swing round, rear up a little and come round on your hind legs. That's
being bridle-wise."

"We aren't taught that way," said Billy the mule stiffly. "We're taught
to obey the man at our head: step off when he says so, and step in when
he says so. I suppose it comes to the same thing. Now, with all this
fine fancy business and rearing, which must be very bad for your hocks,
what do you do?"

"That depends," said the troop-horse. "Generally I have to go in among a
lot of yelling, hairy men with knives--long shiny knives, worse than
the farrier's knives--and I have to take care that Dick's boot is just
touching the next man's boot without crushing it. I can see Dick's lance
to the right of my right eye, and I know I'm safe. I shouldn't care to
be the man or horse that stood up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry."

"Don't the knives hurt?" said the young mule.

"Well, I got one cut across the chest once, but that wasn't Dick's
fault--"

"A lot I should have cared whose fault it was, if it hurt!" said the
young mule.

"You must," said the troop horse. "If you don't trust your man, you may
as well run away at once. That's what some of our horses do, and I don't
blame them. As I was saying, it wasn't Dick's fault. The man was lying
on the ground, and I stretched myself not to tread on him, and he
slashed up at me. Next time I have to go over a man lying down I shall
step on him--hard."

"H'm!" said Billy. "It sounds very foolish. Knives are dirty things
at any time. The proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain with a
well-balanced saddle, hang on by all four feet and your ears too, and
creep and crawl and wriggle along, till you come out hundreds of feet
above anyone else on a ledge where there's just room enough for your
hoofs. Then you stand still and keep quiet--never ask a man to hold your
head, young un--keep quiet while the guns are being put together, and
then you watch the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops ever
so far below."

"Don't you ever trip?" said the troop-horse.

"They say that when a mule trips you can split a hen's ear," said Billy.
"Now and again perhaps a badly packed saddle will upset a mule, but it's
very seldom. I wish I could show you our business. It's beautiful. Why,
it took me three years to find out what the men were driving at. The
science of the thing is never to show up against the sky line, because,
if you do, you may get fired at. Remember that, young un. Always keep
hidden as much as possible, even if you have to go a mile out of your
way. I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of climbing."

"Fired at without the chance of running into the people who are firing!"
said the troop-horse, thinking hard. "I couldn't stand that. I should
want to charge--with Dick."

"Oh, no, you wouldn't. You know that as soon as the guns are in
position they'll do all the charging. That's scientific and neat. But
knives--pah!"

The baggage-camel had been bobbing his head to and fro for some time
past, anxious to get a word in edgewise. Then I heard him say, as he
cleared his throat, nervously:

"I--I--I have fought a little, but not in that climbing way or that
running way."

"No. Now you mention it," said Billy, "you don't look as though you were
made for climbing or running--much. Well, how was it, old Hay-bales?"

"The proper way," said the camel. "We all sat down--"

"Oh, my crupper and breastplate!" said the troop-horse under his breath.
"Sat down!"

"We sat down--a hundred of us," the camel went on, "in a big square, and
the men piled our packs and saddles, outside the square, and they fired
over our backs, the men did, on all sides of the square."

"What sort of men? Any men that came along?" said the troop-horse. "They
teach us in riding school to lie down and let our masters fire across
us, but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd trust to do that. It tickles
my girths, and, besides, I can't see with my head on the ground."

"What does it matter who fires across you?" said the camel. "There are
plenty of men and plenty of other camels close by, and a great many
clouds of smoke. I am not frightened then. I sit still and wait."

"And yet," said Billy, "you dream bad dreams and upset the camp at
night. Well, well! Before I'd lie down, not to speak of sitting down,
and let a man fire across me, my heels and his head would have something
to say to each other. Did you ever hear anything so awful as that?"

There was a long silence, and then one of the gun bullocks lifted up his
big head and said, "This is very foolish indeed. There is only one way
of fighting."

"Oh, go on," said Billy. "Please don't mind me. I suppose you fellows
fight standing on your tails?"

"Only one way," said the two together. (They must have been twins.)
"This is that way. To put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon
as Two Tails trumpets." ("Two Tails" is camp slang for the elephant.)

"What does Two Tails trumpet for?" said the young mule.

"To show that he is not going any nearer to the smoke on the other
side. Two Tails is a great coward. Then we tug the big gun all
together--Heya--Hullah! Heeyah! Hullah! We do not climb like cats nor
run like calves. We go across the level plain, twenty yoke of us, till
we are unyoked again, and we graze while the big guns talk across the
plain to some town with mud walls, and pieces of the wall fall out, and
the dust goes up as though many cattle were coming home."

"Oh! And you choose that time for grazing?" said the young mule.

"That time or any other. Eating is always good. We eat till we are yoked
up again and tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting for it.
Sometimes there are big guns in the city that speak back, and some of
us are killed, and then there is all the more grazing for those that are
left. This is Fate. None the less, Two Tails is a great coward. That is
the proper way to fight. We are brothers from Hapur. Our father was a
sacred bull of Shiva. We have spoken."

"Well, I've certainly learned something tonight," said the troop-horse.
"Do you gentlemen of the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat when you
are being fired at with big guns, and Two Tails is behind you?"

"About as much as we feel inclined to sit down and let men sprawl all
over us, or run into people with knives. I never heard such stuff. A
mountain ledge, a well-balanced load, a driver you can trust to let you
pick your own way, and I'm your mule. But--the other things--no!" said
Billy, with a stamp of his foot.

"Of course," said the troop horse, "everyone is not made in the same
way, and I can quite see that your family, on your father's side, would
fail to understand a great many things."

"Never you mind my family on my father's side," said Billy angrily, for
every mule hates to be reminded that his father was a donkey. "My father
was a Southern gentleman, and he could pull down and bite and kick into
rags every horse he came across. Remember that, you big brown Brumby!"

Brumby means wild horse without any breeding. Imagine the feelings of
Sunol if a car-horse called her a "skate," and you can imagine how the
Australian horse felt. I saw the white of his eye glitter in the dark.

"See here, you son of an imported Malaga jackass," he said between
his teeth, "I'd have you know that I'm related on my mother's side to
Carbine, winner of the Melbourne Cup, and where I come from we aren't
accustomed to being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed,
pig-headed mule in a pop-gun pea-shooter battery. Are you ready?"

"On your hind legs!" squealed Billy. They both reared up facing each
other, and I was expecting a furious fight, when a gurgly, rumbly
voice, called out of the darkness to the right--"Children, what are you
fighting about there? Be quiet."

Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust, for neither horse nor
mule can bear to listen to an elephant's voice.

"It's Two Tails!" said the troop-horse. "I can't stand him. A tail at
each end isn't fair!"

"My feelings exactly," said Billy, crowding into the troop-horse for
company. "We're very alike in some things."

"I suppose we've inherited them from our mothers," said the troop horse.
"It's not worth quarreling about. Hi! Two Tails, are you tied up?"

"Yes," said Two Tails, with a laugh all up his trunk. "I'm picketed for
the night. I've heard what you fellows have been saying. But don't be
afraid. I'm not coming over."

The bullocks and the camel said, half aloud, "Afraid of Two Tails--what
nonsense!" And the bullocks went on, "We are sorry that you heard, but
it is true. Two Tails, why are you afraid of the guns when they fire?"

"Well," said Two Tails, rubbing one hind leg against the other, exactly
like a little boy saying a poem, "I don't quite know whether you'd
understand."

"We don't, but we have to pull the guns," said the bullocks.

"I know it, and I know you are a good deal braver than you think
you are. But it's different with me. My battery captain called me a
Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day."

"That's another way of fighting, I suppose?" said Billy, who was
recovering his spirits.

"You don't know what that means, of course, but I do. It means betwixt
and between, and that is just where I am. I can see inside my head what
will happen when a shell bursts, and you bullocks can't."

"I can," said the troop-horse. "At least a little bit. I try not to
think about it."

"I can see more than you, and I do think about it. I know there's a
great deal of me to take care of, and I know that nobody knows how to
cure me when I'm sick. All they can do is to stop my driver's pay till I
get well, and I can't trust my driver."

"Ah!" said the troop horse. "That explains it. I can trust Dick."

"You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on my back without making me
feel any better. I know just enough to be uncomfortable, and not enough
to go on in spite of it."

"We do not understand," said the bullocks.

"I know you don't. I'm not talking to you. You don't know what blood
is."

"We do," said the bullocks. "It is red stuff that soaks into the ground
and smells."

The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and a snort.

"Don't talk of it," he said. "I can smell it now, just thinking of it.
It makes me want to run--when I haven't Dick on my back."

"But it is not here," said the camel and the bullocks. "Why are you so
stupid?"

"It's vile stuff," said Billy. "I don't want to run, but I don't want to
talk about it."

"There you are!" said Two Tails, waving his tail to explain.

"Surely. Yes, we have been here all night," said the bullocks.

Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring on it jingled. "Oh, I'm
not talking to you. You can't see inside your heads."

"No. We see out of our four eyes," said the bullocks. "We see straight
in front of us."

"If I could do that and nothing else, you wouldn't be needed to pull the
big guns at all. If I was like my captain--he can see things inside his
head before the firing begins, and he shakes all over, but he knows too
much to run away--if I was like him I could pull the guns. But if I were
as wise as all that I should never be here. I should be a king in the
forest, as I used to be, sleeping half the day and bathing when I liked.
I haven't had a good bath for a month."

"That's all very fine," said Billy. "But giving a thing a long name
doesn't make it any better."

"H'sh!" said the troop horse. "I think I understand what Two Tails
means."

"You'll understand better in a minute," said Two Tails angrily. "Now you
just explain to me why you don't like this!"

He began trumpeting furiously at the top of his trumpet.

"Stop that!" said Billy and the troop horse together, and I could
hear them stamp and shiver. An elephant's trumpeting is always nasty,
especially on a dark night.

"I shan't stop," said Two Tails. "Won't you explain that, please?
Hhrrmph! Rrrt! Rrrmph! Rrrhha!" Then he stopped suddenly, and I heard
a little whimper in the dark, and knew that Vixen had found me at last.
She knew as well as I did that if there is one thing in the world the
elephant is more afraid of than another it is a little barking dog. So
she stopped to bully Two Tails in his pickets, and yapped round his big
feet. Two Tails shuffled and squeaked. "Go away, little dog!" he said.
"Don't snuff at my ankles, or I'll kick at you. Good little dog--nice
little doggie, then! Go home, you yelping little beast! Oh, why doesn't
someone take her away? She'll bite me in a minute."

"Seems to me," said Billy to the troop horse, "that our friend Two Tails
is afraid of most things. Now, if I had a full meal for every dog I've
kicked across the parade-ground I should be as fat as Two Tails nearly."

I whistled, and Vixen ran up to me, muddy all over, and licked my nose,
and told me a long tale about hunting for me all through the camp. I
never let her know that I understood beast talk, or she would have
taken all sorts of liberties. So I buttoned her into the breast of my
overcoat, and Two Tails shuffled and stamped and growled to himself.

"Extraordinary! Most extraordinary!" he said. "It runs in our family.
Now, where has that nasty little beast gone to?"

I heard him feeling about with his trunk.

"We all seem to be affected in various ways," he went on, blowing his
nose. "Now, you gentlemen were alarmed, I believe, when I trumpeted."

"Not alarmed, exactly," said the troop-horse, "but it made me feel as
though I had hornets where my saddle ought to be. Don't begin again."

"I'm frightened of a little dog, and the camel here is frightened by bad
dreams in the night."

"It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got to fight in the same
way," said the troop-horse.

"What I want to know," said the young mule, who had been quiet for a
long time--"what I want to know is, why we have to fight at all."

"Because we're told to," said the troop-horse, with a snort of contempt.

"Orders," said Billy the mule, and his teeth snapped.

"Hukm hai!" (It is an order!), said the camel with a gurgle, and Two
Tails and the bullocks repeated, "Hukm hai!"

"Yes, but who gives the orders?" said the recruit-mule.

"The man who walks at your head--Or sits on your back--Or holds the nose
rope--Or twists your tail," said Billy and the troop-horse and the camel
and the bullocks one after the other.

"But who gives them the orders?"

"Now you want to know too much, young un," said Billy, "and that is one
way of getting kicked. All you have to do is to obey the man at your
head and ask no questions."

"He's quite right," said Two Tails. "I can't always obey, because I'm
betwixt and between. But Billy's right. Obey the man next to you who
gives the order, or you'll stop all the battery, besides getting a
thrashing."

The gun-bullocks got up to go. "Morning is coming," they said. "We will
go back to our lines. It is true that we only see out of our eyes, and
we are not very clever. But still, we are the only people to-night who
have not been afraid. Good-night, you brave people."

Nobody answered, and the troop-horse said, to change the conversation,
"Where's that little dog? A dog means a man somewhere about."

"Here I am," yapped Vixen, "under the gun tail with my man. You big,
blundering beast of a camel you, you upset our tent. My man's very
angry."

"Phew!" said the bullocks. "He must be white!"

"Of course he is," said Vixen. "Do you suppose I'm looked after by a
black bullock-driver?"

"Huah! Ouach! Ugh!" said the bullocks. "Let us get away quickly."

They plunged forward in the mud, and managed somehow to run their yoke
on the pole of an ammunition wagon, where it jammed.

"Now you have done it," said Billy calmly. "Don't struggle. You're hung
up till daylight. What on earth's the matter?"

The bullocks went off into the long hissing snorts that Indian cattle
give, and pushed and crowded and slued and stamped and slipped and
nearly fell down in the mud, grunting savagely.

"You'll break your necks in a minute," said the troop-horse. "What's the
matter with white men? I live with 'em."

"They--eat--us! Pull!" said the near bullock. The yoke snapped with a
twang, and they lumbered off together.

I never knew before what made Indian cattle so scared of Englishmen.
We eat beef--a thing that no cattle-driver touches--and of course the
cattle do not like it.

"May I be flogged with my own pad-chains! Who'd have thought of two big
lumps like those losing their heads?" said Billy.

"Never mind. I'm going to look at this man. Most of the white men, I
know, have things in their pockets," said the troop-horse.

"I'll leave you, then. I can't say I'm over-fond of 'em myself. Besides,
white men who haven't a place to sleep in are more than likely to be
thieves, and I've a good deal of Government property on my back. Come
along, young un, and we'll go back to our lines. Good-night, Australia!
See you on parade to-morrow, I suppose. Good-night, old Hay-bale!--try
to control your feelings, won't you? Good-night, Two Tails! If you pass
us on the ground tomorrow, don't trumpet. It spoils our formation."

Billy the Mule stumped off with the swaggering limp of an old
campaigner, as the troop-horse's head came nuzzling into my breast, and
I gave him biscuits, while Vixen, who is a most conceited little dog,
told him fibs about the scores of horses that she and I kept.

"I'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my dog-cart," she said. "Where
will you be?"

"On the left hand of the second squadron. I set the time for all my
troop, little lady," he said politely. "Now I must go back to Dick. My
tail's all muddy, and he'll have two hours' hard work dressing me for
parade."

The big parade of all the thirty thousand men was held that afternoon,
and Vixen and I had a good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of
Afghanistan, with high, big black hat of astrakhan wool and the great
diamond star in the center. The first part of the review was all
sunshine, and the regiments went by in wave upon wave of legs all moving
together, and guns all in a line, till our eyes grew dizzy. Then the
cavalry came up, to the beautiful cavalry canter of "Bonnie Dundee," and
Vixen cocked her ear where she sat on the dog-cart. The second squadron
of the Lancers shot by, and there was the troop-horse, with his tail
like spun silk, his head pulled into his breast, one ear forward and one
back, setting the time for all his squadron, his legs going as smoothly
as waltz music. Then the big guns came by, and I saw Two Tails and two
other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder siege gun, while
twenty yoke of oxen walked behind. The seventh pair had a new yoke, and
they looked rather stiff and tired. Last came the screw guns, and Billy
the mule carried himself as though he commanded all the troops, and his
harness was oiled and polished till it winked. I gave a cheer all by
myself for Billy the mule, but he never looked right or left.

The rain began to fall again, and for a while it was too misty to see
what the troops were doing. They had made a big half circle across the
plain, and were spreading out into a line. That line grew and grew and
grew till it was three-quarters of a mile long from wing to wing--one
solid wall of men, horses, and guns. Then it came on straight toward the
Viceroy and the Amir, and as it got nearer the ground began to shake,
like the deck of a steamer when the engines are going fast.

Unless you have been there you cannot imagine what a frightening effect
this steady come-down of troops has on the spectators, even when they
know it is only a review. I looked at the Amir. Up till then he had not
shown the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else. But now his
eyes began to get bigger and bigger, and he picked up the reins on his
horse's neck and looked behind him. For a minute it seemed as though he
were going to draw his sword and slash his way out through the English
men and women in the carriages at the back. Then the advance stopped
dead, the ground stood still, the whole line saluted, and thirty bands
began to play all together. That was the end of the review, and the
regiments went off to their camps in the rain, and an infantry band
struck up with--

     The animals went in two by two,
          Hurrah!
     The animals went in two by two,
     The elephant and the battery mul',
     and they all got into the Ark
          For to get out of the rain!

Then I heard an old grizzled, long-haired Central Asian chief, who had
come down with the Amir, asking questions of a native officer.

"Now," said he, "in what manner was this wonderful thing done?"

And the officer answered, "An order was given, and they obeyed."

"But are the beasts as wise as the men?" said the chief.

"They obey, as the men do. Mule, horse, elephant, or bullock, he
obeys his driver, and the driver his sergeant, and the sergeant his
lieutenant, and the lieutenant his captain, and the captain his major,
and the major his colonel, and the colonel his brigadier commanding
three regiments, and the brigadier the general, who obeys the Viceroy,
who is the servant of the Empress. Thus it is done."

"Would it were so in Afghanistan!" said the chief, "for there we obey
only our own wills."

"And for that reason," said the native officer, twirling his mustache,
"your Amir whom you do not obey must come here and take orders from our
Viceroy."




Parade Song of the Camp Animals

     ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN TEAMS

     We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules,
     The wisdom of our foreheads, the cunning of our knees;
     We bowed our necks to service: they ne'er were loosed again,--
     Make way there--way for the ten-foot teams
           Of the Forty-Pounder train!

     GUN BULLOCKS

     Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball,
     And what they know of powder upsets them one and all;
     Then we come into action and tug the guns again--
     Make way there--way for the twenty yoke
           Of the Forty-Pounder train!

     CAVALRY HORSES

     By the brand on my shoulder, the finest of tunes
     Is played by the Lancers, Hussars, and Dragoons,
     And it's sweeter than "Stables" or "Water" to me--
     The Cavalry Canter of "Bonnie Dundee"!

     Then feed us and break us and handle and groom,
     And give us good riders and plenty of room,
     And launch us in column of squadron and see
     The way of the war-horse to "Bonnie Dundee"!

     SCREW-GUN MULES

     As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill,
     The path was lost in rolling stones, but we went forward still;
     For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,
     Oh, it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to
        spare!

     Good luck to every sergeant, then, that lets us pick our road;
     Bad luck to all the driver-men that cannot pack a load:
     For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,
     Oh, it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to
        spare!

     COMMISSARIAT CAMELS

     We haven't a camelty tune of our own
     To help us trollop along,
     But every neck is a hair trombone
     (Rtt-ta-ta-ta! is a hair trombone!)
     And this our marching-song:
     Can't!  Don't!  Shan't!  Won't!
     Pass it along the line!
     Somebody's pack has slid from his back,
     Wish it were only mine!
     Somebody's load has tipped off in the road--
     Cheer for a halt and a row!
     Urrr!  Yarrh!  Grr!  Arrh!
     Somebody's catching it now!

     ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER

     Children of the Camp are we,
     Serving each in his degree;
     Children of the yoke and goad,
     Pack and harness, pad and load.
     See our line across the plain,
     Like a heel-rope bent again,
     Reaching, writhing, rolling far,
     Sweeping all away to war!
     While the men that walk beside,
     Dusty, silent, heavy-eyed,
     Cannot tell why we or they
     March and suffer day by day.
        Children of the Camp are we,
        Serving each in his degree;
        Children of the yoke and goad,
        Pack and harness, pad and load!

Ñêà÷àíî ñ ñàéòà www.HomeEnglish.ru

DRACULA

by

Bram Stoker


1897 edition





CHAPTER 1


Jonathan Harker's Journal




3 May. Bistritz. Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May,
arriving at Vienna early next morning; should have arrived
at 6:46, but train was an hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a won-
derful place, from the glimpse which I got of it from the
train and the little I could walk through the streets. I
feared to go very far from the station, as we had arrived
late and would start as near the correct time as possible.

The impression I had was that we were leaving the West
and entering the East; the most western of splendid bridges
over the Danube, which is here of noble width and depth,
took us among the traditions of Turkish rule.

We left in pretty good time, and came after nightfall
to Klausenburgh. Here I stopped for the night at the Hotel
Royale. I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done
up some way with red pepper, which was very good but thirsty.
(Mem. get recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter, and he said
it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a nation-
al dish, I should be able to get it anywhere along the Car-
pathians.

I found my smattering of German very useful here, in-
deed, I don't know how I should be able to get on without
it.

Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I
had visited the British Museum, and made search among the
books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania; it
had struck me that some foreknowledge of the country could
hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a
nobleman of that country.


I find that the district he named is in the extreme
east of the country, just on the borders of three states,
Transylvania, Moldavia, and Bukovina, in the midst of the
Carpathian mountains; one of the wildest and least known
portions of Europe.

I was not able to light on any map or work giving the
exact locality of the Castle Dracula, as there are no maps
of this country as yet to compare with our own Ordance
Survey Maps; but I found that Bistritz, the post town named
by Count Dracula, is a fairly well-known place. I shall
enter here some of my notes, as they may refresh my memory
when I talk over my travels with Mina.

In the population of Transylvania there are four dis-
tinct nationalities: Saxons in the South, and mixed with
them the Wallachs, who are the descendants of the Dacians;
Magyars in the West, and Szekelys in the East and North. I
am going among the latter, who claim to be descended from
Attila and the Huns. This may be so, for when the Magyars
conquered the country in the eleventh century they found
the Huns settled in it.

I read that every known superstition in the world is
gathered into the horseshoe of the Carpathians, as if it
were the centre of some sort of imaginative whirlpool; if
so my stay may be very interesting. (Mem., I must ask the
Count all about them.)

I did not sleep well, though my bed was comfortable
enough, for I had all sorts of queer dreams. There was
a dog howling all night under my window, which may have
had something to do with it; or it may have been the
paprika, for I had to drink up all the water in my car-
afe, and was still thirsty. Towards morning I slept
and was wakened by the continuous knocking at my door,
so I guess I must have been sleeping soundly then.

I had for breakfast more paprika, and a sort of
porridge of maize flour which they said was "mamaliga",
and egg-plant stuffed with forcemeat, a very excellent
dish, which they call "impletata". (Mem., get recipe for this
also.)

I had to hurry breakfast, for the train started a
little before eight, or rather it ought to have done so,
for after rushing to the station at 7:30 I had to sit in
the carriage for more than an hour before we began to move.

It seems to me that the further east you go the more
unpunctual are the trains. What ought they to be in China?

All day long we seemed to dawdle through a country
which was full of beauty of every kind. Sometimes we saw
little towns or castles on the top of steep hills such as we
see in old missals; sometimes we ran by rivers and streams
which seemed from the wide stony margin on each side of them
to be subject ot great floods. It takes a lot of water, and
running strong, to sweep the outside edge of a river clear.

At every station there were groups of people, sometimes
crowds, and in all sorts of attire. Some of them were just
like the peasants at home or those I saw coming through
France and Germany, with short jackets, and round hats, and
home-made trousers; but others were very picturesque.

The women looked pretty, except when you got near them,
but they were very clumsy about the waist. They had all
full white sleeves of some kind or other, and most of them
had big belts with a lot of strips of something fluttering
from them like the dresses in a ballet, but of course there
were petticoats under them.

The strangest figures we saw were the Slovaks, who
were more barbarian than the rest, with their big cow-boy
hats, great baggy dirty-white trousers, white linen shirts,
and enormous heavy leather belts, nearly a foot wide, all
studded over with brass nails. They wore high boots, with
their trousers tucked into them, and had long black hair
and heavy black moustaches. They are very picturesque,
but do not look prepossessing. On the stage they would
be set down at once as some old Oriental band of brigands.
They are, however, I am told, very harmless and rather
wanting in natural self-assertion.

It was on the dark side of twilight when we got to
Bistritz, which is a very interesting old place. Being
practically on the frontier--for the Borgo Pass leads from
it into Bukovina--it has had a very stormy existence, and
it certainly shows marks of it. Fifty years ago a series
of great fires took place, which made terrible havoc on
five separate occasions. At the very beginning of the
seventeenth century it underwent a siege of three weeks
and lost 13,000 people, the casualties of war proper be-
ing assisted by famine and disease.

Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden
Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be
thoroughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all
I could of the ways of the country.

I was evidently expected, for when I got near the
door I faced a cheery-looking elderly woman in the usual
peasant dress--white undergarment with a long double apron,
front, and back, of coloured stuff fitting almost too tight
for modesty. When I came close she bowed and said, "The
Herr Englishman?"

"Yes," I said, "Jonathan Harker."

She smiled, and gave some message to an elderly man in
white shirt-sleeves, who had followed her to the door.

He went, but immediately returned with a letter:


"My friend.--Welcome to the Carpathians. I am anxious-
ly expecting you. Sleep well tonight. At three tomorrow
the diligence will start for Bukovina; a place on it is kept
for you. At the Borgo Pass my carriage will await you and
will bring you to me. I trust that your journey from London
has been a happy one, and that you will enjoy your stay in
my beautiful land.--Your friend, Dracula."


4 May--I found that my landlord had got a letter from
the Count, directing him to secure the best place on the
coach for me; but on making inquiries as to details he seem-
ed somewhat reticent, and pretended that he could not under-
stand my German.

This could not be true, because up to then he had under-
stood it perfectly; at least, he answered my questions
exactly as if he did.

He and his wife, the old lady who had received me, look-
ed at each other in a frightened sort of way. He mumbled out
that the money had been sent in a letter,and that was all he
knew. When I asked him if he knew Count Dracula, and could
tell me anything of his castle, both he and his wife crossed
themselves, and, saying that they knew nothing at all, simply
refused to speak further. It was so near the time of start-
ing that I had no time to ask anyone else, for it was all
very mysterious and not by any means comforting.

Just before I was leaving, the old lady came up to my
room and said in a hysterical way: "Must you go? Oh! Young
Herr, must you go?" She was in such an excited state that
she seemed to have lost her grip of what German she knew,
and mixed it all up with some other language which I did
not know at all. I was just able to follow her by asking
many questions. When I told her that I must go at once, and
that I was engaged on important business, she asked again:

"Do you know what day it is?" I answered that it was
the fourth of May. She shook her head as she said again:

"Oh, yes! I know that! I know that, but do you know
what day it is?"

On my saying that I did not understand, she went on:

"It is the eve of St. George's Day. Do you not know
that to-night, when the clock strikes midnight, all the
evil things in the world will have full sway? Do you know
where you are going, and what you are going to?" She was
in such evident distress that I tried to comfort her, but
without effect. Finally, she went down on her knees and
implored me not to go; at least to wait a day or two be-
fore starting.

It was all very ridiculous but I did not feel com-
fortable. However, there was business to be done, and I
could allow nothing to interfere with it.

I tried to raise her up, and said, as gravely as I
could, that I thanked her, but my duty was imperative, and
that I must go.

She then rose and dried her eyes, and taking a cruci-
fix from her neck offered it to me.

I did not know what to do, for, as an English Church-
man, I have been taught to regard such things as in some
measure idolatrous, and yet it seemed so ungracious to re-
fuse an old lady meaning so well and in such a state of
mind.

She saw, I suppose, the doubt in my face, for she put
the rosary round my neck and said, "For your mother's sake,"
and went out of the room.

I am writing up this part of the diary whilst I am
waiting for the coach, which is, of course, late; and the
crucifix is still round my neck.

Whether it is the old lady's fear, or the many ghostly
traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not
know, but I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as
usual.

If this book should ever reach Mina before I do, let
it bring my good-bye. Here comes the coach!


5 May. The Castle.--The gray of the morning has passed,
and the sun is high over the distant horizon, which seems
jagged, whether with trees or hills I know not, for it is
so far off that big things and little are mixed.

I am not sleepy, and, as I am not to be called till I
awake, naturally I write till sleep comes.

There are many odd things to put down, and, lest who
reads them may fancy that I dined too well before I left
Bistritz, let me put down my dinner exactly.

I dined on what they called "robber steak"--bits of
bacon, onion, and beef, seasoned with red pepper, and
strung on sticks, and roasted over the fire, in simple style
of the London cat's meat!

The wine was Golden Mediasch, which produces a queer
sting on the tongue, which is, however, not disagreeable.

I had only a couple of glasses of this, and nothing
else.

When I got on the coach, the driver had not taken his
seat, and I saw him talking to the landlady.

They were evidently talking of me, for every now and
then they looked at me, and some of the people who were
sitting on the bench outside the door--came and listened,
and then looked at me, most of them pityingly. I could hear
a lot of words often repeated, queer words, for there were
many nationalities in the crowd, so I quietly got my polyglot
dictionary from my bag and looked them out.

I must say they were not cheering to me, for amongst
them were "Ordog"--Satan, "Pokol"--hell, "stregoica"--witch,
"vrolok" and "vlkoslak"--both mean the same thing, one being
Slovak and the other Servian for something that is either
werewolf or vampire. (Mem., I must ask the Count about these
superstitions.)

When we started, the crowd round the inn door, which
had by this time swelled to a considerable size, all made
the sign of the cross and pointed two fingers towards me.

With some difficulty, I got a fellow passenger to tell
me what they meant. He would not answer at first, but on
learning that I was English, he explained that it was a
charm or guard against the evil eye.

This was not very pleasant for me, just starting for an
unknown place to meet an unknown man. But everyone seemed
so kind-hearted, and so sorrowful, and so sympathetic that I
could not but be touched.

I shall never forget the last glimpse which I had of
the inn yard and its crowd of picturesque figures,all cross-
ing themselves, as they stood round the wide archway, with
its background of rich foliage of oleander and orange trees
in green tubs clustered in the centre of the yard.

Then our driver, whose wide linen drawers covered the
whole front of the boxseat,--"gotza" they call them--cracked
his big whip over his four small horses, which ran abreast,
and we set off on our journey.

I soon lost sight and recollection of ghostly fears in
the beauty of the scene as we drove along, although had I
known the language, or rather languages, which my fellow-
passengers were speaking, I might not have been able to
throw them off so easily. Before us lay a green sloping
land full of forests and woods, with here and there steep
hills, crowned with clumps of trees or with farmhouses, the
blank gable end to the road. There was everywhere a bewild-
ering mass of fruit blossom--apple, plum, pear, cherry. And
as we drove by I could see the green grass under the trees
spangled with the fallen petals. In and out amongst these
green hills of what they call here the "Mittel Land" ran the
road, losing itself as it swept round the grassy curve, or
was shut out by the straggling ends of pine woods, which
here and there ran down the hillsides like tongues of flame.
The road was rugged, but still we seemed to fly over it with
a feverish haste. I could not understand then what the haste
meant, but the driver was evidently bent on losing no time
in reaching Borgo Prund. I was told that this road is in
summertime excellent, but that it had not yet been put in
order after the winter snows. In this respect it is differ-
ent from the general run of roads in the Carpathians, for it
is an old tradition that they are not to be kept in too good
order. Of old the Hospadars would not repair them, lest the
Turk should think that they were preparing to bring in for-
eign troops, and so hasten the war which was always really
at loading point.

Beyond the green swelling hills of the Mittel Land rose
mighty slopes of forest up to the lofty steeps of the Car-
pathians themselves. Right and left of us they towered, with
the afternoon sun falling full upon them and bringing out
all the glorious colours of this beautiful range, deep blue
and purple in the shadows of the peaks, green and brown where
grass and rock mingled, and an endless perspective of jagged
rock and pointed crags, till these were themselves lost in
the distance, where the snowy peaks rose grandly. Here and
there seemed mighty rifts in the mountains, through which,
as the sun began to sink, we saw now and again the white
gleam of falling water. One of my companions touched my arm
as we swept round the base of a hill and opened up the lofty,
snow-covered peak of a mountain, which seemed, as we wound on
our serpentine way, to be right before us.

"Look! Isten szek!"--"God's seat!"--and he crossed him-
self reverently.

As we wound on our endless way, and the sun sank lower
and lower behind us, the shadows of the evening began to
creep round us. This was emphasized by the fact that the
snowy mountain-top still held the sunset, and seemed to glow
out with a delicate cool pink. Here and there we passed
Cszeks and slovaks, all in picturesque attire, but I noticed
that goitre was painfully prevalent. By the roadside were
many crosses, and as we swept by, my companions all crossed
themselves. Here and there was a peasant man or woman kneel-
ing before a shrine, who did not even turn round as we
approached, but seemed in the self-surrender of devotion to
have neither eyes nor ears for the outer world. There were
many things new to me. For instance, hay-ricks in the trees,
and here and there very beautiful masses of weeping birch,
their white stems shining like silver through the delicate
green of the leaves.

Now and again we passed a leiter-wagon--the ordinary
peasants's cart--with its long, snakelike vertebra, calcu-
lated to suit the inequalities of the road. On this were
sure to be seated quite a group of homecoming peasants, the
Cszeks with their white, and the Slovaks with their coloured
sheepskins, the latter carrying lance-fashion their long
staves, with axe at end. As the evening fell it began to get
very cold, and the growing twilight seemed to merge into one
dark mistiness the gloom of the trees, oak, beech, and pine,
though in the valleys which ran deep between the spurs of
the hills, as we ascended through the Pass, the dark firs
stood out here and there against the background of late-
lying snow. Sometimes, as the road was cut through the pine
woods that seemed in the darkness to be closing down upon
us, great masses of greyness which here and there bestrewed
the trees, produced a peculiarly weird and solemn effect,
which carried on the thoughts and grim fancies engendered
earlier in the evening, when the falling sunset threw into
strange relief the ghost-like clouds which amongst the
Carpathians seem to wind ceaselessly through the valleys.
Sometimes the hills were so steep that, despite our driver's
haste, the horses could only go slowly. I wished to get down
and walk up them, as we do at home, but the driver would not
hear of it. "No, no," he said. "You must not walk here. The
dogs are too fierce." And then he added, with what he evi-
dently meant for grim pleasantry--for he looked round to
catch the approving smile of the rest--"And you may have
enough of such matters before you go to sleep." The only
stop he would make was a moment's pause to light his lamps.

When it grew dark there seemed to be some excitement
amongst the passengers, and they kept speaking to him, one
after the other, as though urging him to further speed. He
lashed the horses unmercifully with his long whip, and with
wild cries of encouragement urged them on to further
exertions. Then through the darkness I could see a sort of
patch of grey light ahead of us,as though there were a cleft
in the hills. The excitement of the passengers grew greater.
The crazy coach rocked on its great leather springs, and
swayed like a boat tossed on a stormy sea. I had to hold on.
The road grew more level, and we appeared to fly along. Then
the mountains seemed to come nearer to us on each side and
to frown down upon us. We were entering on the Borgo Pass.
One by one several of the passengers offered me gifts, which
they pressed upon me with an earnestness which would take no
denial. These were certainly of an odd and varied kind, but
each was given in simple good faith, with a kindly word, and
a blessing, and that same strange mixture of fear-meaning
movements which I had seen outside the hotel at Bistritz--
the sign of the cross and the guard against the evil eye.
Then, as we flew along, the driver leaned forward, and on
each side the passengers, craning over the edge of the coach,
peered eagerly into the darkness. It was evident that some-
thing very exciting was either happening or expected, but
though I asked each passenger, no one would give me the
slightest explanation. This state of excitement kept on for
some little time. And at last we saw before us the Pass
opening out on the eastern side. There were dark, rolling
clouds overhead, and in the air the heavy, oppressive sense
of thunder. It seemed as though the mountain range had sepa-
rated two atmospheres, and that now we had got into the
thunderous one. I was now myself looking out for the convey-
ance which was to take me to the Count. Each moment I
expected to see the glare of lamps through the blackness, but
all was dark. The only light was the flickering rays of our
own lamps, in which the steam from our hard-driven horses
rose in a white cloud. We could see now the sandy road lying
white before us, but there was on it no sign of a vehicle.
The passengers drew back with a sigh of gladness, which
seemed to mock my own disappointment. I was already thinking
what I had best do, when the driver, looking at his watch,
said to the others something which I could hardly hear, it
was spoken so quietly and in so low a tone, I thought it was
"An hour less than the time." Then turning to me, he spoke
in German worse than my own.

"There is no carriage here. The Herr is not expected
after all. He will now come on to Bukovina, and return tomor-
row or the next day, better the next day." Whilst he was
speaking the horses began to neigh and snort and plunge
wildly, so that the driver had to hold them up. Then, amongst
a chorus of screams from the peasants and a universal cross-
ing of themselves, a caleche, with four horses, drove up be-
hind us, overtook us, and drew up beside the coach. I could
see from the flash of our lamps as the rays fell on them,
that the horses were coal-black and splendid animals. They
were driven by a tall man, with a long brown beard and a
great black hat, which seemed to hide his face from us. I
could only see the gleam of a pair of very bright eyes, which
seemed red in the lamplight, as he turned to us.

He said to the driver, "You are early tonight, my
friend."

The man stammered in reply, "The English Herr was in
a hurry."

To which the stranger replied, "That is why, I suppose,
you wished him to go on to Bukovina. You cannot deceive me,
my friend. I know too much, and my horses are swift."

As he spoke he smiled,and the lamplight fell on a hard-
looking mouth, with very red lips and sharp-looking teeth,
as white as ivory. One of my companions whispered to another
the line from Burger's "Lenore".

"Denn die Todten reiten Schnell."
("For the dead travel fast.")


The strange driver evidently heard the words, for he
looked up with a gleaming smile. The passenger turned his
face away, at the same time putting out his two fingers and
crossing himself. "Give me the Herr's luggage," said the
driver, and with exceeding alacrity my bags were handed out
and put in the caleche. Then I descended from the side of
the coach, as the caleche was close alongside, the driver
helping me with a hand which caught my arm in a grip of
steel. His strength must have been prodigious.

Without a word he shook his reins, the horses turned,
and we swept into the darkness of the pass. As I looked back
I saw the steam from the horses of the coach by the light
of the lamps,and projected against it the figures of my late
companions crossing themselves. Then the driver cracked his
whip and called to his horses, and off they swept on their
way to Bukovina. As they sank into the darkness I felt a
strange chill, and a lonely feeling come over me. But a
cloak was thrown over my shoulders, and a rug across my
knees, and the driver said in excellent German--

"The night is chill, mein Herr, and my master the Count
bade me take all care of you. There is a flask of slivovitz
(the plum brandy of the country) underneath the seat, if you
should require it."

I did not take any, but it was a comfort to know it was
there all the same. I felt a little strangely, and not a
little frightened. I think had there been any alternative I
should have taken it, instead of prosecuting that unknown
night journey. The carriage went at a hard pace straight
along, then we made a complete turn and went along another
straight road. It seemed to me that we were simply going
over and over the same ground again, and so I took note of
some salient point, and found that this was so. I would have
liked to have asked the driver what this all meant, but I
really feared to do so, for I thought that, placed as I was,
any protest would have had no effect in case there had been
an intention to delay.

By-and-by, however, as I was curious to know how time
was passing, I struck a match, and by its flame looked at my
watch. It was within a few minutes of midnight. This gave me
a sort of shock, for I suppose the general superstition
about midnight was increased by my recent experiences. I
waited with a sick feeling of suspense.

Then a dog began to howl somewhere in a farmhouse far
down the road, a long, agonized wailing, as if from fear.
The sound was taken up by another dog, and then another and
another, till, borne on the wind which now sighed softly
through the Pass, a wild howling began, which seemed to come
from all over the country, as far as the imagination could
grasp it through the gloom of the night.

At the first howl the horses began to strain and rear,
but the driver spoke to them soothingly, and they quieted
down, but shivered and sweated as though after a runaway
from sudden fright. Then, far off in the distance, from the
mountains on each side of us began a louder and a sharper
howling, that of wolves, which affected both the horses and
myself in the same way. For I was minded to jump from the
caleche and run, whilst they reared again and plunged madly,
so that the driver had to use all his great strength to keep
them from bolting. In a few minutes, however, my own ears
got accustomed to the sound, and the horses so far became
quiet that the driver was able to descend and to stand be-
fore them.

He petted and soothed them, and whispered something in
their ears, as I have heard of horse-tamers doing, and with
extraordinary effect, for under his caresses they became
quite manageable again, though they still trembled. The
driver again took his seat, and shaking his reins, started
off at a great pace. This time, after going to the far side
or the Pass, he suddenly turned down a narrow roadway which
ran sharply to the right.

Soon we were hemmed in with trees, which in places
arched right over the roadway till we passed as through a
tunnel. And again great frowning rocks guarded us boldly on
either side. Though we were in shelter, we could hear the
rising wind, for it moaned and whistled through the rocks,
and the branches of the trees crashed together as we swept
along. It grew colder and colder still, and fine, powdery
snow began to fall, so that soon we and all around us were
covered with a white blanket. The keen wind still carried
the howling of the dogs, though this grew fainter as we went
on our way. The baying of the wolves sounded nearer and near-
er, as though they were closing round on us from every side.
I grew dreadfully afraid, and the horses shared my fear. The
driver, however, was not in the least disturbed. He kept turn-
ing his head to left and right, but I could not see anything
through the darkness.

Suddenly, away on our left I saw a fain flickering blue
flame. The driver saw it at the same moment. He at once
checked the horses, and, jumping to the ground, disappeared
into the darkness. I did not know what to do, the less as
the howling of the wolves grew closer. But while I wondered,
the driver suddenly appeared again, and without a word took
his seat, and we resumed our journey. I think I must have
fallen asleep and kept dreaming of the incident, for it
seemed to be repeated endlessly, and now looking back, it is
like a sort of awful nightmare. Once the flame appeared so
near the road, that even in the darkness around us I could
watch the driver's motions. He went rapidly to where the
blue flame arose, it must have been very faint, for it did
not seem to illumine the place around it at all, and gather-
ing a few stones, formed them into some device.

Once there appeared a strange optical effect. When he
stood between me and the flame he did not obstruct it, for I
could see its ghostly flicker all the same. This startled me,
but as the effect was only momentary, I took it that my eyes
deceived me straining through the darkness. Then for a time
there were no blue flames, and we sped onwards through the
gloom, with the howling of the wolves around us, as though
they were following in a moving circle.

At last there came a time when the driver went further
afield than he had yet gone, and during his absence, the
horses began to tremble worse than ever and to snort and
scream with fright. I could not see any cause for it, for the
howling of the wolves had ceased altogether. But just then
the moon, sailing through the black clouds, appeared behind
the jagged crest of a beetling, pine-clad rock, and by its
light I saw around us a ring of wolves, with white teeth and
lolling red tongues, with long, sinewy limbs and shaggy hair.
They were a hundred times more terrible in the grim silence
which held them than even when they howled. For myself, I
felt a sort of paralysis of fear. It is only when a man feels
himself face to face with such horrors that he can under-
stand their true import.

All at once the wolves began to howl as though the moon-
light had had some peculiar effect on them. The horses jumped
about and reared, and looked helplessly round with eyes that
rolled in a way painful to see.  But the living ring of terror
encompassed them on every side, and they had perforce to
remain within it. I called to the coachman to come, for it
seemed to me that our only chance was to try to break out
through the ring and to aid his approach, I shouted and beat
the side of the caleche, hoping by the noise to scare the
wolves from the side, so as to give him a chance of reaching
the trap. How he came there, I know not, but I heard his
voice raised in a tone of imperious command, and looking
towards the sound, saw him stand in the roadway. As he swept
his long arms, as though brushing aside some impalpable
obstacle, the wolves fell back and back further still. Just
then a heavy cloud passed across the face of the moon, so
that we were again in darkness.

When I could see again the driver was climbing into the
caleche, and the wolves disappeared. This was all so strange
and uncanny that a dreadful fear came upon me, and I was
afraid to speak or move. The time seemed interminable as we
swept on our way, now in almost complete darkness, for the
rolling clouds obscured the moon.

We kept on ascending, with occasional periods of quick
descent, but in the main always ascending. Suddenly, I became
conscious of the fact that the driver was in the act of pull-
ing up the horses in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle,
from whose tall black windows came no ray of light,and whose
broken battlements showed a jagged line against the sky.





CHAPTER 2


Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued



5 May.--I must have been asleep, for certainly if I had
been fully awake I must have noticed the approach of such a
remarkable place. In the gloom the courtyard looked of con-
siderable size, and as several dark ways led from it under
great round arches, it perhaps seemed bigger than it really
is. I have not yet been able to see it by daylight.

When the caleche stopped, the driver jumped down and
held out his hand to assist me to alight. Again I could not
but notice his prodigious strength. His hand actually seemed
like a steel vice that could have crushed mine if he had
chosen. Then he took my traps, and placed them on the ground
beside me as I stood close to a great door, old and studded
with large iron nails, and set in a projecting doorway of
massive stone. I could see even in th e dim light that the
stone was massively carved, but that the carving had been
much worn by time and weather. As I stood, the driver jump-
ed again into his seat and shook the reins. The horses start-
ed forward,and trap and all disappeared down one of the dark
openings.

I stood in silence where I was, for I did not know what
to do. Of bell or knocker there was no sign. Through these
frowning walls and dark window openings it was not likely
that my voice could penetrate. The time I waited seemed end-
less, and I felt doubts and fears crowding upon me. What
sort of place had I come to, and among what kind of people?
What sort of grim adventure was it on which I had embarked?
Was this a customary incident in the life of a solicitor's
clerk sent out to explain the purchase of a London estate
to a foreigner? Solicitor's clerk! Mina would not like that.
Solicitor, for just before leaving London I got word that my
examination was successful, and I am now a full-blown solic-
itor! I began to rub my eyes and pinch myself to see if I
were awake. It all seemed like a horrible nightmare to me,
and I expected that I should suddenly awake, and find myself
at home, with the dawn struggling in through the windows, as
I had now and again felt in the morning after a day of over-
work. But my flesh answered the pinching test, and my eyes
were not to be deceived. I was indeed awake and among the
Carpathians. All I could do now was to be patient, and to
wait the coming of morning.

Just as I had come to this conclusion I heard a heavy
step approaching behind the great door, and saw through the
chinks the gleam of a coming light. Then there was the
sound of rattling chains and the clanking of massive bolts
drawn back. A key was turned with the loud grating noise of
long disuse, and the great door swung back.

Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a
long white moustache, and clad in black from head to foot,
without a single speck of colour about him anywhere. He
held in his hand an antique silver lamp, in which the flame
burned without a chimney or globe of any kind, throwing long
quivering shadows as it flickered in the draught of the open
door. The old man motioned me in with his right hand with a
courtly gesture, saying in excellent English, but with a
strange intonation.

"Welcome to my house! Enter freely and of your own free
will!" He made no motion of stepping to meet me, but stood
like a statue,as though his gesture of welcome had fixed him
into stone. The instant, however, that I had stepped over the
threshold, he moved impulsively forward, and holding out his
hand grasped mine with a strength which made me wince, an
effect which was not lessened by the fact that it seemed
cold as ice, more like the hand of a dead than a living man.
Again he said.

"Welcome to my house! Enter freely. Go safely, and leave
something of the happiness you bring!" The strength of the
handshake was so much akin to that which I had noticed in
the driver, whose face I had not seen, that for a moment I
doubted if it were not the same person to whom I was speak-
ing. So to make sure, I said interrogatively, "Count Drac-
ula?"

He bowed in a courtly was as he replied, "I am Dracula,
and I bid you welcome, Mr. Harker, to my house. Come in, the
night air is chill, and you must need to eat and rest."As he
was speaking, he put the lamp on a bracket on the wall, and
stepping out, took my luggage. He had carried it in before I
could forestall him. I protested, but he insisted.

"Nay, sir, you are my guest. It is late, and my people
are not available. Let me see to your comfort myself."He in-
sisted on carrying my traps along the passage, and then up a
great winding stair, and along another great passage, on
whose stone floor our steps rang heavily. At the end of this
he threw open a heavy door, and I rejoiced to see within a
well-lit room in which a table was spread for supper, and on
whose mighty hearth a great fire of logs, freshly replenished,
flamed and flared.

The Count halted, putting down my bags, closed the door,
and crossing the room, opened another door, which led into a
small octagonal room lit by a single lamp, and seemingly
without a window of any sort. Passing through this, he open-
ed another door, and motioned me to enter. It was a welcome
sight. For here was a great bedroom well lighted and warmed
with another log fire, also added to but lately, for the top
logs were fresh, which sent a hollow roar up the wide chim-
ney. The Count himself left my luggage inside and withdrew,
saying, before he closed the door.

"You will need, after your journey, to refresh yourself
by making your toilet. I trust you will find all you wish.
When you are ready, come into the other room, where you will
find your supper prepared."

The light and warmth and the Count's courteous welcome
seemed to have dissipated all my doubts and fears. Having
then reached my normal state, I discovered that I was half
famished with hunger. So making a hasty toilet, I went into
the other room.

I found supper already laid out. My host, who stood on
one side of the great fireplace, leaning against the stone-
work, made a graceful wave of his hand to the table, and
said,

"I pray you, be seated and sup how you please. You will
I trust, excuse me that I do not join you, but I have dined
already, and I do not sup."

I handed to him the sealed letter which Mr. Hawkins had
entrusted to me. He opened it and read it gravely. Then,
with a charming smile, he handed it to me to read. One pass-
age of it, at least, gave me a thrill of pleasure.

"I must regret that an attack of gout, from which mal-
ady I am a constant sufferer, forbids absolutely any travel-
ling on my part for some time to come. But I am happy to say
I can send a sufficient substitute, one in whom I have every
possible confidence. He is a young man, full of energy and
talent in his own way, and of a very faithful disposition.
He is discreet and silent, and has grown into manhood in my
service. He shall be ready to attend on you when you will
during his stay, and shall take your instructions in all
matters."

The count himself came forward and took off the cover
of a dish, and I fell to at once on an excellent roast
chicken. This, with some cheese and a salad and a bottle of
old tokay, of which I had two glasses, was my supper. During
the time I was eating it the Count asked me many question
as to my journey, and I told him by degrees all I had
experienced.

By this time I had finished my supper,and by my host's
desire had drawn up a chair by the fire and begun to smoke
a cigar which he offered me, at the same time excusing him-
self that he did not smoke. I had now an opportunity of
observing him, and found him of a very marked physiognomy.

His face was a strong, a very strong, aquiline, with
high bridge of the thin nose and peculiarly arched nostrils,
with lofty domed forehead, and hair growing scantily round
the temples but profusely elsewhere. His eyebrows were very
massive, almost meeting over the nose, and with bushy hair
that seemed to curl in its own profusion. The mouth, so
far as I could see it under the heavy moustache, was fixed
and rather cruel-looking, with peculiarly sharp white teeth.
These protruded over the lips, whose remarkable ruddiness
showed astonishing vitality in a man of his years. For the
rest, his ears were pale, and at the tops extremely point-
ed. The chin was broad and strong, and the cheeks firm
though thin. The general effect was one of extraordinary
pallor.

Hitherto I had noticed the backs of his hands as they
lay on his knees in the firelight, and they had seemed
rather white and fine. But seeing them now close to me, I
could not but notice that they were rather coarse, broad,
with squat fingers. Strange to say, there were hairs in the
centre of the palm. The nails were long and fine, and cut
to a sharp point. As the Count leaned over me and his hands
touched me, I could not repress a shudder. It may have been
that his breath was rank, but a horrible feeling of nausea
came over me, which, do what I would, I could not conceal.

The Count, evidently noticing it, drew back. And with
a grim sort of smile, which showed more than he had yet
done his protruberant teeth, sat himself down again on his
own side of the fireplace. We were both silent for a while,
and as I looked towards the window I saw the first dim
streak of the coming dawn. There seemed a strange stillness
over everything. But as I listened, I heard as if from down
below in the valley the howling of many wolves. The Count's
eyes gleamed, and he said.

"Listen to them, the children of the night. What music
they make!" Seeing, I suppose, some expression in my face
strange to him, he added, "Ah, sir, you dwellers in the city
cannot enter into the feelings of the hunter." Then he rose
and said.

"But you must be tired. Your bedroom is all ready, and
tomorrow you shall sleep as late as you will. I have to be
away till the afternoon, so sleep well and dream well!"
With a courteous bow, he opened for me himself the door to
the octagonal room, and I entered my bedroom.

I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt. I fear. I think
strange things, which I dare not confess to my own soul.
God keep me, if only for the sake of those dear to me!


7 May.--It is again early morning, but I have rested
and enjoyed the last twenty-four hours. I slept till late
in the day, and awoke of my own accord. When I had dressed
myself I went into the room where we had supped, and found
a cold breakfast laid out, with coffee kept hot by the pot
being placed on the hearth. There was a card on the table,
on which was written--

"I have to be absent for a while. Do not wait for me.
D." I set to and enjoyed a hearty meal. When I had done,
I looked for a bell, so that I might let the servants know
I had finished, but I could not find one. There are cer-
tainly odd deficiencies in the house, considering the ex-
traordinary evidences of wealth which are round me. The
table service is of gold, and so beautifully wrought that
it must be of immense value. The curtains and upholstery
of the chairs and sofas and the hangings of my bed are of
the costliest and most beautiful fabrics, and must have
been of fabulous value when they were made, for they are
centuries old, though in excellent order. I saw something
like them in Hampton Court, but they were worn and frayed
and moth-eaten. But still in none of the rooms is there a
mirror. There is not even a toilet glass on my table, and
I had to get the little shaving glass from my bag before I
could either shave or brush my hair. I have not yet seen a
servant anywhere, or heard a sound near the castle except
the howling of wolves. Some time after I had finished my
meal, I do not know whether to call it breakfast of dinner,
for it was between five and six o'clock when I had it, I
looked about for something to read, for I did not like to
go about the castle until I had asked the Count's permiss-
ion. There was absolutely nothing in the room, book, news-
paper, or even writing materials, so I opened another door
in the room and found a sort of library. The door opposite
mine I tried, but found locked.

In the library I found, to my great delight, a vast
number of English books, whole shelves full of them, and
bound volumes of magazines and newspapers. A table in the
center was littered with English magazines and newspapers,
though none of them were of very recent date. The books
were of the most varied kind, history, geography, politics,
political economy, botany, geology, law, all relating to
England and English life and customs and manners. There
were even such books of reference as the London Directory,
the "Red" and "Blue" books, Whitaker's Almanac, the Army
and Navy Lists, and it somehow gladdened my heart to see
it, the Law List.

Whilst I was looking at the books, the door opened,
and the Count entered. He saluted me in a hearty way, and
hoped that I had had a good night's rest. Then he went on.

"I am glad you found your way in here, for I am sure
there is much that will interest you. These companions,"
and he laid his hand on some of the books, "have been good
friends to me, and for some years past, ever since I had
the idea of going to London, have given me many, many hours
of pleasure. Through them I have come to know your great
England, and to know her is to love her. I long to go
through the crowded streets of your mighty London, to be
in the midst of the whirl and rush of humanity, to share
its life, its change, its death, and all that makes it what
it is. But alas! As yet I only know your tongue through
books. To you, my friend, I look that I know it to speak."

"But, Count," I said, "You know and speak English
thoroughly!" He bowed gravely.

"I thank you, my friend, for your all too-flattering
estimate, but yet I fear that I am but a little way on the
road I would travel. True, I know the grammar and the words,
but yet I know not how to speak them.

"Indeed," I said, "You speak excellently."

"Not so," he answered. "Well, I know that, did I move
and speak in your London, none there are who would not know
me for a stranger. That is not enough for me. Here I am nob-
le. I am a Boyar. The common people know me, and I am master.
But a stranger in a strange land, he is no one. Men know
him not, and to know not is to care not for. I am content
if I am like the rest, so that no man stops if he sees me,
or pauses in his speaking if he hears my words, `Ha, ha!
A stranger!' I have been so long master that I would be
master still, or at least that none other should be master
of me. You come to me not alone as agent of my friend Peter
Hawkins, of Exeter, to tell me all about my new estate in
London. You shall, I trust, rest here with me a while, so
that by our talking I may learn the English intonation. And
I would that you tell me when I make error, even of the
smallest, in my speaking. I am sorry that I had to be away
so long today, but you will, I know forgive one who has so
many important affairs in hand."

Of course I said all I could about being willing, and
asked if I might come into that room when I chose. He ans-
wered, "Yes, certainly," and added.

"You may go anywhere you wish in the castle, except
where the doors are locked, where of course you will not
wish to go. There is reason that all things are as they are,
and did you see with my eyes and know with my knowledge,
you would perhaps better understand." I said I was sure of
this, and then he went on.

"We are in Transylvania, and Transylvania is not Eng-
land. Our ways are not your ways, and there shall be to you
many strange things. Nay, from what you have told me of
your experiences already, you know something of what
strange things there may be."

This led to much conversation, and as it was evident
that he wanted to talk, if only for talking's sake, I ask-
ed him many questions regarding things that had already
happened to me or come within my notice. Sometimes he
sheered off the subject, or turned the conversation by
pretending not to understand, but generally he answered
all I asked most frankly. Then as time went on, and I had
got somewhat bolder, I asked him of some of the strange
things of the preceding night, as for instance, why the
coachman went to the places where he had seen the blue
flames. He then explained to me that it was commonly
believed that on a certain night of the year, last night,
in fact, when all evil spirits are supposed to have un-
checked sway, a blue flame is seen over any place where
treasure has been concealed.

"That treasure has been hidden," he went on, "in the
region through which you came last night, there can be but
little doubt. For it was the ground fought over for centur-
ies by the Wallachian, the Saxon, and the Turk. Why, there
is hardly a foot of soil in all this region that has not
been enriched by the blood of men, patriots or invaders.
In the old days there were stirring times, when the Aust-
rian and the Hungarian came up in hordes, and the patriots
went out to meet them, men and women, the aged and the chil-
dren too, and waited their coming on the rocks above the
passes, that they might sweep destruction on them with
their artificial avalanches. When the invader was trium-
phant he found but little, for whatever there was had been
sheltered in the friendly soil."

"But how," said I, "can it have remained so long un-
discovered, when there is a sure index to it if men will
but take the trouble to look? "The Count smiled, and as his
lips ran back over his gums, the long, sharp, canine teeth
showed out strangely. He answered.

"Because your peasant is at heart a coward and a fool!
Those flames only appear on one night, and on that night no
man of this land will, if he can help it, stir without his
doors. And, dear sir, even if he did he would not know what
to do. Why, even the peasant that you tell me of who marked
the place of the flame would not know where to look in day-
light even for his own work. Even you would not, I dare be
sworn, be able to find these places again?"

"There you are right," I said. "I know no more than the
dead where even to look for them." Then we drifted into
other matters.

"Come," he said at last, "tell me of London and of the
house which you have procured for me." With an apology for
my remissness, I went into my own room to get the papers
from my bag. Whilst I was placing them in order I heard a
rattling of china and silver in the next room, and as I
passed through, noticed that the table had been cleared and
the lamp lit, for it was by this time deep into the dark.
The lamps were also lit in the study or library, and I
found the Count lying on the sofa, reading, of all things
in the world, and English Bradshaw's Guide. When I came in
he cleared the books and papers from the table, and with
him I went into plans and deeds and figures of all sorts.
He was interested in everything, and asked me a myriad
questions about the place and its surroundings. He clearly
had studied beforehand all he could get on the subject of
the neighborhood, for he evidently at the end knew very
much more than I did. When I remarked this, he answered.

"Well, but, my friend, is it not needful that I should?
When I go there I shall be all alone, and my friend Harker
Jonathan, nay, pardon me. I fall into my country's habit of
putting your patronymic first, my friend Jonathan Harker
will not be by my side to correct and aid me. He will be
in Exeter, miles away, probably working at papers of the
law with my other friend, Peter Hawkins. So!"

We went thoroughly into the business of the purchase
of the estate at Purfleet. When I had told him the facts
and got his signature to the necessary papers, and had
written a letter with them ready to post to Mr. Hawkins, he
began to ask me how I had come across so suitable a place.
I read to him the notes which I had made at the time, and
which I inscribe here.

"At Purfleet, on a by-road, I came across just such a
place as seemed to be required, and where was displayed a
dilapidated notice that the place was for sale. It was sur-
rounded by a high wall, of ancient structure, built of heavy
stones, and has not been repaired for a large number of
years. The closed gates are of heavy old oak and iron, all
eaten with rust.

"The estate is called Carfax, no doubt a corruption of
the old Quatre Face, as the house is four sided, agreeing
with the cardinal points of the compass. It contains in all
some twenty acres, quite surrounded by the solid stone wall
above mentioned. There are many trees on it, which make it
in places gloomy, and there is a deep, dark-looking pond
or small lake, evidently fed by some springs, as the water
is clear and flows away in a fair-sized stream. The house
is very large and of all periods back, I should say, to
mediaeval times, for one part is of stone immensely thick,
with only a few windows high up and heavily barred with
iron. It looks like part of a keep, and is close to an old
chapel or church. I could not enter it, as I had not the
key of the door leading to it from the house, but I have
taken with my Kodak views of it from various points. The
house had been added to, but in a very straggling way, and
I can only guess at the amount of ground it covers, which
must be very great. There are but few houses close at
hand, one being a very large house only recently added
to and formed into a private lunatic asylum. It is not, how-
ever, visible from the grounds."

When I had finished, he said, "I am glad that it is old
and big. I myself am of an old family, and to live in a new
house would kill me. A house cannot be made habitable in a
day, and after all, how few days go to make up a century. I
rejoice also that there is a chapel of old times. We Tran-
sylvanian nobles love not to think that our bones may lie
amongst the common dead. I seek not gaiety nor mirth, not
the bright voluptuousness of much sunshine and sparkling
waters which please the young and gay. I am no longer
young, and my heart, through weary years of mourning over
the dead, is attuned to mirth. Moreover, the walls of my
castle are broken. The shadows are many, and the wind
breathes cold through the broken battlements and casements.
I love the shade and the shadow, and would be alone with
my thoughts when I may." Somehow his words and his look
did not seem to accord, or else it was that his cast of
face made his smile look malignant and saturnine.

Presently, with an excuse, he left me, asking me to
pull my papers together. He was some little time away, and
I began to look at some of the books around me. One was an
atlas, which I found opened naturally to England, as if
that map had been much used. On looking at it I found in
certain places little rings marked, and on examining these
I noticed that one was near London on the east side, mani-
festly where his new estate was situated. The other two
were Exeter, and Whitby on the Yorkshire coast.

It was the better part of an hour when the Count re-
turned. "Aha!" he said. "Still at your books? Good! But
you must not work always. Come! I am informed that your
supper is ready." He took my arm, and we went into the next
room, where I found an excellent supper ready on the table.
The Count again excused himself, as he had dined out on
his being away from home. But he sat as on the previous
night, and chatted whilst I ate. After supper I smoked,
as on the last evening, and the Count stayed with me, chat-
ting and asking questions on every conceivable subject,
hour after hour. I felt that it was getting very late in-
deed, but I did not say anything, for I felt under
obligation to meet my host's wishes in every way. I was
not sleepy, as the long sleep yesterday had fortified me,
but I could not help experiencing that chill which comes
over one at the coming of the dawn, which is like, in its
way, the turn of the tide. They say that people who are
near death die generally at the change to dawn or at the
turn of the tide. Anyone who has when tired, and tied as
it were to his post, experienced this change in the
atmosphere can well believe it. All at once we heard the
crow of the cock coming up with preternatural shrillness
through the clear morning air.

Count Dracula, jumping to his feet, said, "Why there
is the morning again! How remiss I am to let you stay up so
long. You must make your conversation regarding my dear new
country of England less interesting, so that I may not for-
get how time flies by us," and with a courtly bow, he
quickly left me.

I went into my room and drew the curtains, but there
was little to notice. My window opened into the courtyard,
all I could see was the warm grey of quickening sky. So I
pulled the curtains again, and have written of this day.


8 May.--I began to fear as I wrote in this book that I
was getting too diffuse. But now I am glad that I went into
detail from the first, for there is something so strange
about this place and all in it that I cannot but feel uneasy.
I wish I were safe out of it, or that I had never come. It
may be that this strange night existence is telling on me,
but would that that were all! If there were any one to
talk to I could bear it, but there is no one. I have only the
Count to speak with, and he-- I fear I am myself the only
living soul within the place. Let me be prosaiac so far as
facts can be. It will help me to bear up, and imagination
must not run riot with me. If it does I am lost. Let me say
at once how I stand, or seem to.

I only slept a few hours when I went to bed,and feeling
that I could not sleep any more, got up. I had hung my shav-
ing glass by the window, and was just beginning to shave.
Suddenly I felt a hand on my shoulder, and heard the Count's
voice saying to me, "Good morning." I started, for it amazed
me that I had not seen him, since the reflection of the glass
covered the whole room behind me. In starting I had cut my-
self slightly, but did not notice it at the moment. Having
answered the Count's salutation, I turned to the glass again
to see how I had been mistaken. This time there could be no
error, for the man was close to me, and I could see him
over my shoulder. But there was no reflection of him in the
mirror! The whole room behind me was displayed, but there
was no sign of a man in it, except myself.

This was startling, and coming on the top of so many
strange things, was beginning to increase that vague feeling
of uneasiness which I always have when the Count is near.
But at the instant I saw the the cut had bled a little, and
the blood was trickling over my chin. I laid down the razor,
turning as I did so half round to look for some sticking
plaster. When the Count saw my face, his eyes blazed with a
sort of demoniac fury, and he suddenly made a grab at my
throat. I drew away and his hand touched the string of
beads which held the crucifix. It made an instant change
in him, for the fury passed so quickly that I could hardly
believe that it was ever there.

"Take care," he said, "take care how you cut yourself.
It is more dangerous that you think in this country." Then
seizing the shaving glass, he went on, "And this is the
wretched thing that has done the mischief. It is a foul
bauble of man's vanity. Away with it!" And opening the
window with one wrench of his terrible hand, he flung out
the glass, which was shattered into a thousand pieces on
the stones of the courtyard far below. Then he withdrew
without a word. It is very annoying, for I do not see how
I am to shave, unless in my watch-case or the bottom of
the shaving pot, which is fortunately of metal.

When I went into the dining room, breakfast was pre-
pared, but I could not find the Count anywhere. So I break-
fasted alone. It is strange that as yet I have not seen the
Count eat or drink. He must be a very peculiar man! After
breakfast I did a little exploring in the castle. I went out
on the stairs, and found a room looking towards the South.

The view was magnificent, and from where I stood there
was every opportunity of seeing it. The castle is on the
very edge of a terrific precipice. A stone falling from the
window would fall a thousand feet without touching anything!
As far as the eye can reach is a sea of green tree tops, with
occasionally a deep rift where there is a chasm. Here and
there are silver threads where the rivers wind in deep
gorges through the forests.

But I am not in heart to describe beauty, for when I had
seen the view I explored further. Doors, doors, doors every-
where, and all locked and bolted. In no place save from the
windows in the castle walls is there an available exit. The
castle is a veritable prison, and I am a prisoner!




CHAPTER 3


Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued


When I found that I was a prisoner a sort of wild feel-
ing came over me. I rushed up and down the stairs, trying
every door and peering out of every window I could find, but
after a little the conviction of my helplessness overpowered
all other feelings. When I look back after a few hours I
think I must have been mad for the time, for I behaved much
as a rat does in a trap. When, however, the conviction had
come to me that I was helpless I sat down quietly, as quiet-
ly as I have ever done anything in my life, and began to
think over what was best to be done. I am thinking still,
and as yet have come to no definite conclusion. Of one thing
only am I certain. That it is no use making my ideas known
to the Count. He knows well that I am imprisoned, and as he
has done it himself, and has doubtless his own motives for
it, he would only deceive me if I trusted him fully with the
facts. So far as I can see, my only plan will be to keep my
knowledge and my fears to myself, and my eyes open. I am, I
know, either being deceived, like a baby, by my own fears,
or else I am in desperate straits, and if the latter be so,
I need, and shall need, all my brains to get through.

I had hardly come to this conclusion when I heard the
great door below shut, and knew that the Count had returned.
He did not come at once into the library, so I went cau-
tiously to my own room and found him making the bed. This
was odd, but only confirmed what I had all along thought,
that there are no servants in the house. When later I saw
him through the chink of the hinges of the door laying the
table in the dining room, I was assured of it. For if he
does himself all these menial offices, surely it is proof
that there is no one else in the castle, it must have been
the Count himself who was the driver of the coach that
brought me here. This is a terrible thought, for if so,
what does it mean that he could control the wolves, as he
did, by only holding up his hand for silence? How was it
that all the people at Bistritz and on the coach had some
terrible fear for me? What meant the giving of the crucifix,
of the garlic, of the wild rose, of the mountain ash?

Bless that good, good woman who hung the crucifix round
my neck! For it is a comfort and a strength to me whenever I
touch it. It is odd that a thing which I have been taught to
regard with disfavour and as idolatrous should in a time of
loneliness and trouble be of help. Is it that there is some-
thing in the essence of the thing itself, or that it is a
medium, a tangible help, in conveying memories of sympathy
and comfort? Some time, if it may be, I must examine this
matter and try to make up my mind about it. In the meantime
I must find out all I can about Count Dracula,as it may help
me to understand. Tonight he may talk of himself, if I turn
the conversation that way. I must be very careful, however,
not to awake his suspicion.


Midnight.--I have had a long talk with the Count. I
asked him a few questions on Transylvania history, and he
warmed up to the subject wonderfully. In his speaking of
things and people, and especially of battles, he spoke as if
he had been present at them all. This he afterwards explained
by saying that to a Boyar the pride of his house and name is
his own pride, that their glory is his glory, that their fate
is his fate. Whenever he spoke of his house he always said
"we", and spoke almost in the plural, like a king speaking.
I wish I could put down all he said exactly as he said it,
for to me it was most fascinating. It seemed to have in it
a whole history of the country. He grew excited as he spoke,
and walked about the room pulling his great white moustache
and grasping anything on which he laid his hands as though
he would crush it by main strength. One thing he said which
I shall put down as nearly as I can, for it tells in its way
the story of his race.

"We Szekelys have a right to be proud, for in our veins
flows the blood of many brave races who fought as the lion
fights, for lordship. Here, in the whirlpool of European
races, the Ugric tribe bore down from Iceland the fighting
spirit which Thor and Wodin game them, which their Berserkers
displayed to such fell intent on the seaboards of Europe,
aye, and of Asia and Africa too, till the peoples thought
that the werewolves themselves had come. Here, too, when
they came, they found the Huns, whose warlike fury had
swept the earth like a living flame, till the dying peoples
held that in their veins ran the blood of those old witches,
who, expelled from Scythia had mated with the devils in the
desert. Fools, fools! What devil or what witch was ever so
great as Attila, whose blood is in these veins?" He held up
his arms. "Is it a wonder that we were a conquering race,
that we were proud, that when the Magyar, the Lombard, the
Avar, the Bulgar, or the Turk poured his thousands on our
frontiers, we drove them back? Is it strange that when Arpad
and his legions swept through the Hungarian fatherland he
found us here when he reached the frontier, that the Honfog-
lalas was completed there? And when the Hungarian flood swept
eastward, the Szekelys were claimed as kindred by the victor-
ious Magyars, and to us for centuries was trusted the guard-
ing of the frontier of Turkeyland. Aye, and more than that,
endless duty of the frontier guard, for as the Turks say,
`water sleeps, and the enemy is sleepless.' Who more gladly
than we throughout the Four Nations received the `bloody
sword,' or at its warlike call flocked quicker to the stand-
ard of the King? When was redeemed that great shame of my
nation, the shame of Cassova, when the flags of the Wallach
and the Magyar went down beneath the Crescent? Who was it but
one of my own race who as Voivode crossed the Danube and
beat the Turk on his own ground? This was a Dracula indeed!
Woe was it that his own unworthy brother, when he had fallen,
sold his people to the Turk and brought the shame of slavery
on them! Was it not this Dracula, indeed, who inspired that
other of his race who in a later age again and again brought
his forces over the great river into Turkeyland, who, when he
was beaten back, came again, and again, though he had to come
alone from the bloody field where his troops were being
slaughtered, since he knew that he alone could ultimately
triumph! They said that he thought only of himself.  Bah! What
good are peasants without a leader? Where ends the war with-
out a brain and heart to conduct it? Again, when, after the
battle of Mohacs, we threw off the Hungarian yoke, we of the
Dracula blood were amongst their leaders, for our spirit
would not brook that we were not free. Ah, young sir, the
Szekelys, and the Dracula as their heart's blood, their
brains, and their swords, can boast a record that mushroom
growths like the Hapsburgs and the Romanoffs can never reach.
The warlike days are over. Blood is too precious a thing in
these days of dishonourable peace, and the glories of the
great races are as a tale that is told."

It was by this time close on morning, and we went to
bed. (Mem., this diary seems horribly like the beginning of
the "Arabian Nights," for everything has to break off at
cockcrow, or like the ghost of Hamlet's father.)


12 May.--Let me begin with facts, bare, meager facts,
verified by books and figures, and of which there can be no
doubt. I must not confuse them with experiences which will
have to rest on my own observation, or my memory of them.
Last evening when the Count came from his room he began by
asking me questions on legal matters and on the doing of
certain kinds of business. I had spent the day wearily over
books, and, simply to keep my mind occupied, went over some
of the matters I had been examined in at Lincoln's Inn. There
was a certain method in the Count's inquiries, so I shall
try to put them down in sequence. The knowledge may somehow
or some time be useful to me.

First, he asked if a man in England might have two so-
licitors or more. I told him he might have a dozen if he
wished, but that it would not be wise to have more than one
solicitor engaged in one transaction, as only one could act
at a time, and that to change would be certain to militate
against his interest. He seemed thoroughly to understand,
and went on to ask if there would be any practical difficul-
ty in having one man to attend, say, to banking, and another
to look after shipping, in case local help were needed in a
place far from the home of the banking solicitor. I asked
to explain more fully, so that I might not by any chance
mislead him, so he said,

"I shall illustrate. Your friend and mine, Mr. Peter
Hawkins, from under the shadow of your beautiful cathedral
at Exeter, which is far from London, buys for me through
your good self my place at London. Good! Now here let me
say frankly, lest you should think it strange that I have
sought the services of one so far off from London instead of
some one resident there, that my motive was that no local
interest might be served save my wish only, and as one of
London residence might, perhaps, have some purpose of himself
or friend to serve, I went thus afield to seek my agent,
whose labours should be only to my interest. Now, suppose I,
who have much of affairs, wish to ship goods, say, to New-
castle, or Durham, or Harwich, or Dover, might it not be that
it could with more ease be done by consigning to one in
these ports?"

I answered that certainly it would be most easy, but
that we solicitors had a system of agency one for the other,
so that local work could be done locally on instruction from
any solicitor, so that the client, simply placing himself
in the hands of one man, could have his wishes carried out
by him without further trouble.

"But," said he, "I could be at liberty to direct myself.
Is it not so?"

"Of course, " I replied, and "Such is often done by men
of business, who do not like the whole of their affairs to be
known by any one person."

"Good!" he said,and then went on to ask about the means
of making consignments and the forms to be gone through, and
of all sorts of difficulties which might arise, but by fore-
thought could be guarded against. I explained all these
things to him to the best of my ability, and he certainly
left me under the impression that he would have made a
wonderful solicitor, for there was nothing that he did not
think of or foresee. For a man who was never in the country,
and who did not evidently do much in the way of business, his
knowledge and acumen were wonderful. When he had satisfied
himself on these points of which he had spoken, and I had
verified all as well as I could by the books available, he
suddenly stood up and said, "Have you written since your
first letter to our friend Mr. Peter Hawkins, or to any
other?"

It was with some bitterness in my heart that I answered
that I had not, that as yet I had not seen any opportunity
of sending letters to anybody.

"Then write now, my young friend," he said, laying a
heavy hand on my shoulder, "write to our friend and to any
other, and say, if it will please you, that you shall stay
with me until a month from now."

"Do you wish me to stay so long?" I asked, for my heart
grew cold at the thought.

"I desire it much, nay I will take no refusal. When your
master, employer, what you will, engaged that someone should
come on his behalf, it was understood that my needs only were
to be consulted. I have not stinted. Is it not so?"

What could I do but bow acceptance? It was Mr. Hawkins'
interest, not mine, and I had to think of him, not myself,
and besides, while Count Dracula was speaking, there was
that in his eyes and in his bearing which made me remember
that I was a prisoner, and that if I wished it I could have
no choice. The Count saw his victory in my bow, and his mas-
tery in the trouble of my face, for he began at once to use
them, but in his own smooth, resistless way.

"I pray you, my good young friend, that you will not
discourse of things other than business in your letters. It
will doubtless please your friends to know that you are well,
and that you look forward to getting home to them. Is it not
so?" As he spoke he handed me three sheets of note paper
and three envelopes. They were all of the thinnest foreign
post, and looking at them, then at him, and noticing his
quiet smile, with the sharp, canine teeth lying over the red
underlip, I understood as well as if he had spoken that I
should be more careful what I wrote, for he would be able to
read it. So I determined to write only formal notes now, but
to write fully to Mr. Hawkins in secret, and also to Mina,
for to her I could write shorthand, which would puzzle the
Count, if he did see it. When I had written my two letters I
sat quiet, reading a book whilst the Count wrote several
notes, referring as he wrote them to some books on his table.
Then he took up my two and placed them with his own, and put
by his writing materials, after which, the instant the door
had closed behind him, I leaned over and looked at the lett-
ers, which were face down on the table. I felt no compunction
in doing so for under the circumstances I felt that I should
protect myself in every way I could.

One of the letters was directed to Samuel F. Billington,
No. 7, The Crescent, Whitby, another to Herr Leutner, Varna.
The third was to Coutts & Co., London, and the fourth to
Herren Klopstock & Billreuth, bankers, Buda Pesth. The
second and fourth were unsealed. I was just about to look at
them when I saw the door handle move. I sank back in my seat,
having just had time to resume my book before the Count,
holding still another letter in his hand, entered the room.
He took up the letters on the table and stamped them care-
fully, and then turning to me, said,

"I trust you will forgive me, but I have much work to
do in private this evening. You will, I hope, find all things
as you wish." At the door he turned, and after a moment's
pause said, "Let me advise you, my dear young friend. Nay,
let me warn you with all seriousness, that should you leave
these rooms you will not by any chance go to sleep in any
other part of the castle. It is old, and has many memories,
and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely. Be
warned! Should sleep now or ever overcome you, or be like to
do, then haste to your own chamber or to these rooms, for
your rest will then be safe. But if you be not careful in
this respect, then," He finished his speech in a gruesome
way, for he motioned with his hands as if he were washing
them. I quite understood. My only doubt was as to whether
any dream could be more terrible than the unnatural, horrible
net of gloom and mystery which seemed closing around me.


Later.--I endorse the last words written, but this time
there is no doubt in question. I shall not fear to sleep in
any place where he is not. I have placed the crucifix over
the head of my bed, I imagine that my rest is thus freer from
dreams, and there it shall remain.

When he left me I went to my room. After a little while,
not hearing any sound, I came out and went up the stone stair
to where I could look out towards the South. There was some
sense of freedom in the vast expanse, inaccessible though it
was to me,as compared with the narrow darkness of the court-
yard. Looking out on this, I felt that I was indeed in pri-
son, and I seemed to want a breath of fresh air, though it
were of the night. I am beginning to feel this nocturnal ex-
istence tell on me. It is destroying my nerve. I start at
my own shadow, and am full of all sorts of horrible imagin-
ings. God knows that there is ground for my terrible fear in
this accursed place! I looked out over the beautiful expanse,
bathed in soft yellow moonlight till it was almost as light
as day. In the soft light the distant hills became melted,
and the shadows in the valleys and gorges of velvety black-
ness. The mere beauty seemed to cheer me. There was peace
and comfort in every breath I drew. As I leaned from the win-
dow my eye was caught by something moving a storey below me,
and somewhat to my left, where I imagined, from the order of
the rooms, that the windows of the Count's own room would
look out. The window at which I stood was tall and deep,
stone-mullioned, and though weatherworn, was still complete.
But it was evidently many a day since the case had been
there. I drew back behind the stonework, and looked carefully
out.

What I saw was the Count's head coming out from the
window. I did not see the face, but I knew the man by the
neck and the movement of his back and arms. In any case I
could not mistake the hands which I had had some many oppor-
tunities of studying. I was at first interested and somewhat
amused, for it is wonderful how small a matter will interest
and amuse a man when he is a prisoner. But my very feelings
changed to repulsion and terror when I saw the whole man
slowly emerge from the window and begin to crawl down the
castle wall over the dreadful abyss, face down with his cloak
spreading out around him like great wings. At first I could
not believe my eyes. I thought it was some trick of the moon-
light, some weird effect of shadow, but I kept looking, and
it could be no delusion. I saw the fingers and toes grasp the
corners of the stones, worn clear of the mortar by the stress
of years, and by thus using every projection and inequality
move downwards with considerable speed, just as a lizard
moves along a wall.

What manner of man is this, or what manner of creature,
is it in the semblance of man? I feel the dread of this hor-
rible place overpowering me. I am in fear, in awful fear, and
there is no escape for me. I am encompassed about with
terrors that I dare not think of.


15 May.--Once more I have seen the count go out in his
lizard fashion. He moved downwards in a sidelong way, some
hundred feet down, and a good deal to the left. He vanished
into some hole or window. When his head had disappeared, I
leaned out to try and see more, but without avail. The dis-
tance was too great to allow a proper angle of sight. I knew
he had left the castle now, and thought to use the opportun-
ity to explore more than I had dared to do as yet. I went
back to the room, and taking a lamp, tried all the doors.
They were all locked, as I had expected, and the locks were
comparatively new. But I went down the stone stairs to the
hall where I had entered originally. I found I could pull
back the bolts easily enough and unhook the great chains.
But the door was locked, and the key was gone! That key must
be in the Count's room. I must watch should his door be un-
locked, so that I may get it and escape. I went on to make
a thorough examination of the various stairs and passages,
and to try the doors that opened from them. One or two
small rooms near the hall were open, but there was nothing
to see in them except old furniture, dusty with age and
moth-eaten. At last, however, I found one door at the top of
the stairway which, though it seemed locked, gave a little
under pressure. I tried it harder, and found that it was not
really locked, but that the resistance came from the fact
that the hinges had fallen somewhat,and the heavy door rest-
ed on the floor. Here was an opportunity which I might not
have again, so I exerted myself,and with many efforts forced
it back so that I could enter. I was now in a wing of the
castle further to the right than the rooms I knew and a
storey lower down. From the windows I could see that the
suite of rooms lay along to the south of the castle, the win-
dows of the end room looking out both west and south. On the
latter side, as well as to the former, there was a great
precipice. The castle was built on the corner of a great
rock, so that on three sides it was quite impregnable, and
great windows were placed here where sling, or bow, or culv-
erin could not reach, and consequently light and comfort,
impossible to a position which had to be guarded, were secu-
red. To the west was a great valley, and then, rising far
away, great jagged mountain fastnesses, rising peak on peak,
the sheer rock studded with mountain ash and thorn, whose
roots clung in cracks and crevices and crannies of the stone.
This was evidently the portion of the castle occupied by the
ladies in bygone days, for the furniture had more an air of
comfort than any I had seen.

The windows were curtainless, and the yellow moonlight,
flooding in through the diamond panes, enabled one to see
even colours, whilst it softened the wealth of dust which lay
over all and disguised in some measure the ravages of time
and moth. My lamp seemed to be of little effect in the brill-
iant moonlight, but I was glad to have it with me, for there
was a dread loneliness in the place which chilled my heart
and made my nerves tremble. Still, it was better than living
alone in the rooms which I had come to hate from the pre-
sence of the Count, and after trying a little to school my
nerves, I found a soft quietude come over me. Here I am,
sitting at a little oak table where in old times possibly
some fair lady sat to pen, with much thought and many blushes,
her ill-spelt love letter, and writing in my diary in short-
hand all that has happened since I closed it last. It is the
nineteenth century up-to-date with a vengeance. And yet, un-
less my senses deceive me, the old centuries had, and have,
powers of their own which mere "modernity" cannot kill.


Later: The morning of 16 May.--God preserve my sanity,
for to this I am reduced. Safety and the assurance of safety
are things of the past. Whilst I live on here there is but
one thing to hope for, that I may not go mad, if, indeed, I
be not mad already. If I be sane, then surely it is maddening
to think that of all the foul things that lurk in this hate-
ful place the Count is the least dreadful to me, that to him
alone I can look for safety, even though this be only whilst
I can serve his purpose. Great God! Merciful God, let me be
calm, for out of that way lies madness indeed. I begin to
get new lights on certain things which have puzzled me. Up
to now I never quite knew what Shakespeare meant when he
made Hamlet say, "My tablets! Quick, my tablets! `tis meet
that I put it down," etc., For now, feeling as though my own
brain were unhinged or as if the shock had come which must
end in its undoing, I turn to my diary for repose. The habit
of entering accurately must help to soothe me.

The Count's mysterious warning frightened me at the
time. It frightens me more not when I think of it, for in
the future he has a fearful hold upon me. I shall fear to
doubt what he may say!

When I had written in my diary and had fortunately re-
placed the book and pen in my pocket I felt sleepy. The
Count's warning came into my mind, but I took pleasure in
disobeying it. The sense of sleep was upon me, and with it
the obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft moon-
light soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense of
freedom which refreshed me. I determined not to return to-
night to the gloom-haunted rooms, but to sleep here, where,
of old, ladies had sat and sung and lived sweet lives whilst
their gentle breasts were sad for their menfolk away in the
midst of remorseless wars. I drew a great couch out of its
place near the corner, so that as I lay, I could look at the
lovely view to east and south,and unthinking of and uncaring
for the dust, composed myself for sleep. I suppose I must
have fallen asleep. I hope so, but I fear, for all that fol-
lowed was startlingly real, so real that now sitting here in
the broad, full sunlight of the morning, I cannot in the
least believe that it was all sleep.

I was not alone. The room was the same, unchanged in any
way since I came into it. I could see along the floor, in the
brilliant moonlight, my own footsteps marked where I had dis-
turbed the long accumulation of dust. In the moonlight opp-
osite me were three young women, ladies by their dress and
manner. I thought at the time that I must be dreaming when I
saw them, they threw no shadow on the floor. They came close
to me, and looked at me for some time, and then whispered
together. Two were dark, and had high aquiline noses, like
the Count, and great dark, piercing eyes, that seemed to be
almost red when contrasted with the pale yellow moon. The
other was fair,as fair as can be, with great masses of gold-
en hair and eyes like pale sapphires. I seemed somehow to
know her face, and to know it in connection with some dreamy
fear, but I could not recollect at the moment how or where.
All three had brilliant white teeth that shone like pearls
against the ruby of their voluptuous lips. There was some-
thing about them that made me uneasy, some longing and at the
same time some deadly fear. I felt in my heart a wicked, burn-
ing desire that they would kiss me with those red lips. It is
not good to note this down, lest some day it should meet
Mina's eyes and cause her pain, but it is the truth. They
whispered together, and then they all three laughed, such a
silvery, musical laugh, but as hard as though the sound never
could have come through the softness of human lips. It was
like the intolerable, tingling sweetness of waterglasses when
played on by a cunning hand. The fair girl shook her head
coquettishly, and the other two urged her on.

One said, "Go on! You are first, and we shall follow.
Yours' is the right to begin."

The other added, "He is young and strong. There are
kisses for us all."

I lay quiet, looking out from under my eyelashes in an
agony of delightful anticipation. The fair girl advanced and
bent over me till I could feel the movement of her breath
upon me. Sweet it was in one sense, honey-sweet, and sent the
same tingling through the nerves as her voice, but with a
bitter underlying the sweet, a bitter offensiveness, as one
smells in blood.

I was afraid to raise my eyelids, but looked out and saw
perfectly under the lashes. The girl went on her knees, and
bent over me, simply gloating. There was a deliberate volupt-
uousness which was both thrilling and repulsive, and as she
arched her neck she actually licked her lips like an animal,
till I could see in the moonlight the moisture shining on
the scarlet lips and on the red tongue as it lapped the
white sharp teeth. Lower and lower went her head as the lips
went below the range of my mouth and chin and seemed to
fasten on my throat. Then she paused, and I could hear the
churning sound of her tongue as it licked her teeth and lips,
and I could feel the hot breath on my neck. Then the skin of
my throat began to tingle as one's flesh does when the hand
that is to tickle it approaches nearer, nearer. I could feel
the soft, shivering touch of the lips on the super sensitive
skin of my throat, and the hard dents of two sharp teeth,
just touching and pausing there. I closed my eyes in lang-
uorous ecstasy and waited, waited with beating heart.

But at that instant, another sensation swept through me
as quick as lightning. I was conscious of the presence of the
Count, and of his being as if lapped in a storm of fury. As
my eyes opened involuntarily I saw his strong hand grasp the
slender neck of the fair woman and with giant's power draw
it back, the blue eyes transformed with fury, the white
teeth champing with rage, and the fair cheeks blazing red
with passion. But the Count! Never did I imagine such wrath
and fury, even to the demons of the pit. His eyes were pos-
itively blazing. The red light in them was lurid, as if the
flames of hell fire blazed behind them. His face was deathly
pale, and the lines of it were hard like drawn wires. The
thick eyebrows that met over the nose now seemed like a
heaving bar of white-hot metal. With a fierce sweep of his
arm, he hurled the woman from him, and then motioned to the
others, as though he were beating them back. It was the same
imperious gesture that I had seen used to the wolves. In a
voice which, though low and almost in a whisper seemed to cut
through the air and then ring in the room he said,

"How dare you touch him, any of you? How dare you cast
eyes on him when I had forbidden it? Back, I tell you all!
This man belongs to me! Beware how you meddle with him, or
you'll have to deal with me."

The fair girl, with a laugh of ribald coquetry, turned
to answer him. "You yourself never loved. You never love!" On
this the other women joined,and such a mirthless, hard, soul-
less laughter rang through the room that it almost made me
faint to hear. It seemed like the pleasure of fiends.

Then the Count turned, after looking at my face atten-
tively, and said in a soft whisper, "Yes, I too can love. You
yourselves can tell it from the past. Is it not so? Well, now
I promise you that when I am done with him you shall kiss
him at your will. Now go! Go! I must awaken him, for there is
work to be done."

"Are we to have nothing tonight?" said one of them, with
a low laugh, as she pointed to the bag which he had thrown
upon the floor, and which moved as though there were some
living thing within it. For answer he nodded his head. One
of the women jumped forward and opened it. If my ears did not
deceive me there was a gasp and a low wail, as of a half
smothered child. The women closed round, whilst I was aghast
with horror. But as I looked, they disappeared, and with them
the dreadful bag. There was no door near them, and they could
not have passed me without my noticing. They simply seemed to
fade into the rays of the moonlight and pass out through the
window, for I could see outside the dim, shadowy forms for a
moment before they entirely faded away.

Then the horror overcame me,and I sank down unconscious.





CHAPTER 4


Jonathan Harker's Journal Continued


I awoke in my own bed. If it be that I had not dreamt,
the Count must have carried me here. I tried to satisfy
myself on the subject, but could not arrive at any un-
questionable result. To be sure, there were certain small
evidences, such as that my clothes were folded and laid by
in a manner which was not my habit. My watch was still
unwound, and I am rigorously accustomed to wind it the last
thing before going to bed, and many such details. But these
things are no proof, for they may have been evidences that
my mind was not as usual, and, for some cause or another, I
had certainly been much upset. I must watch for proof. Of one
thing I am glad. If it was that the Count carried me here and
undressed me, he must have been hurried in his task, for my
pockets are intact. I am sure this diary would have been a
mystery to him which he would not have brooked. He would have
taken or destroyed it. As I look round this room, although
it has been to me so full of fear, it is now a sort of sanc-
tuary, for nothing can be more dreadful than those awful
women, who were, who are, waiting to suck my blood.


18 May.--I have been down to look at that room again in
daylight, for I must know the truth. When I got to the door-
way at the top of the stairs I found it closed. It had been
so forcibly driven against the jamb that part of the wood-
work was splintered. I could see that the bolt of the lock
had not been shot, but the door is fastened from the inside.
I fear it was no dream, and must act on this surmise.


19 May.--I am surely in the toils. Last night the Count
asked me in the sauvest tones to write three letters, one
saying that my work here was nearly done, and that I should
start for home within a few days,another that I was starting
on the next morning from the time of the letter, and the
third that I had left the castle and arrived at Bistritz. I
would fain have rebelled, but felt that in the present state
of things it would be madness to quarrel openly with the
Count whilst I am so absolutely in his power. And to refuse
would be to excite his suspicion and to arouse his anger. He
knows that I know too much, and that I must not live, lest I
be dangerous to him. My only chance is to prolong my oppor-
tunities. Something may occur which will give ma a chance to
escape. I saw in his eyes something of that gathering wrath
which was manifest when he hurled that fair woman from him.
He explained to me that posts were few and uncertain, and
that my writing now would ensure ease of mind to my friends.
And he assured me with so much impressiveness that he would
countermand the later letters, which would be held over at
Bistritz until due time in case chance would admit of my
prolonging my stay, that to oppose him would have been to
create new suspicion. I therefore pretended to fall in with
his views, and asked him what dates I should put on the
letters.

He calculated a minute, and then said, "The first
should be June 12, the second June 19,and the third June 29."

I know now the span of my life. God help me!


28 May.--There is a chance of escape, or at any rate of
being able to send word home. A band of Szgany have come to
the castle, and are encamped in the courtyard. These are
gipsies. I have notes of them in my book. They are peculiar
to this part of the world, though allied to the ordinary
gipsies all the world over. There are thousands of them in
Hungary and Transylvania, who are almost outside all law.
They attach themselves as a rule to some great noble or
boyar, and call themselves by his name. They are fearless
and without religion, save superstition, and they talk only
their own varieties of the Romany tongue.

I shall write some letters home, and shall try to get
them to have them posted. I have already spoken to them
through my window to begin acquaintanceship. They took their
hats off and made obeisance and many signs, which however, I
could not understand any more than I could their spoken
language. . .

I have written the letters. Mina's is in shorthand, and
I simply ask Mr. Hawkins to communicate with her. To her I
have explained my situation, but without the horrors which I
may only surmise. It would shock and frighten her to death
were I to expose my heart to her. Should the letters not
carry, then the Count shall not yet know my secret or the
extent of my knowledge. . .


I have given the letters. I threw them through the bars
of my window with a gold piece, and made what signs I could
to have them posted. The man who took them pressed them to
his heart and bowed, and then put them in his cap. I could
do no more. I stole back to the study, and began to read. As
the Count did not come in, I have written here. . .


The Count has come. He sat down beside me, and said in
his smoothest voice as he opened two letters, "The Szgany
has given me these, of which, though I know not whence they
come, I shall, of course, take care. See!"--He must have
looked at it.--"One is from you, and to my friend Peter
Hawkins. The other,"--here he caught sight of the strange
symbols as he opened the envelope, and the dark look came
into his face, and his eyes blazed wickedly,--"The other is
a vile thing, an outrage upon friendship and hospitality! It
is not signed. Well! So it cannot matter to us."And he calm-
ly held letter and envelope in the flame of the lamp till
they were consumed.

Then he went on, "The letter to Hawkins, that I shall,
of course send on, since it is yours. Your letters are sacred
to me. Your pardon, my friend, that unknowingly I did break
the seal. Will you not cover it again?" He held out the letter
to me, and with a courteous bow handed me a clean envelope.

I could only redirect it and hand it to him in silence.
When he went out of the room I could hear the key turn soft-
ly. A minute later I went over and tried it, and the door
was locked.

When, an hour or two after, the Count came quietly into
the room, his coming awakened me, for I had gone to sleep on
the sofa. He was very courteous and very cheery in his manner,
and seeing that I had been sleeping, he said, "So, my friend,
you are tired? Get to bed. There is the surest rest. I may
not have the pleasure of talk tonight, since there are many
labours to me, but you will sleep, I pray."

I passed to my room and went to bed, and, strange to
say, slept without dreaming. Despair has its own calms.

31 May.--This morning when I woke I thought I would
provide myself with some papers and envelopes from my bag
and keep them in my pocket, so that I might write in case I
should get an opportunity, but again a surprise, again a
shock!

Every scrap of paper was gone, and with it all my notes,
my memoranda, relating to railways and travel, my letter of
credit, in fact all that might be useful to me were I once
outside the castle. I sat and pondered awhile, and then some
thought occurred to me, and I made search of my portmanteau
and in the wardrobe where I had placed my clothes.

The suit in which I had travelled was gone, and also my
overcoat and rug. I could find no trace of them anywhere.
This looked like some new scheme of villainy. . .


17 June.--This morning, as I was sitting on the edge of
my bed cudgelling my brains, I heard without a crackling of
whips and pounding and scraping of horses' feet up the
rocky path beyond the courtyard. With joy I hurried to the
window, and saw drive into the yard two great leiter-wagons,
each drawn by eight sturdy horses, and at the head of each
pair a Slovak, with his wide hat, great nail-studded belt,
dirty sheepskin, and high boots. They had also their long
staves in hand. I ran to the door, intending to descend and
try and join them through the main hall, as I thought that
way might be opened for them. Again a shock, my door was
fastened on the outside.

Then I ran to the window and cried to them. They looked
up at me stupidly and pointed, but just then the "hetman" of
the Szgany came out, and seeing them pointing to my window,
said something, at which they laughed.

Henceforth no effort of mine, no piteous cry or agonized
entreaty, would make them even look at me. They resolutely
turned away. The leiter-wagons contained great, square boxes,
with handles of thick rope. These were evidently empty by
the ease with which the Slovaks handled them, and by their
resonance as they were roughly moved.

When they were all unloaded and packed in a great heap
in one corner of the yard, the Slovaks were given some money
by the Szgany, and spitting on it for luck, lazily went each
to his horse's head. Shortly afterwards, I heard the crack-
ling of their whips die away in the distance.


24 June.--Last night the Count left me early, and lock-
ed himself into his own room.  As soon as I dared I ran up the
winding stair, and looked out of the window, which opened
South. I thought I would watch for the Count, for there is
something going on. The Szgany are quartered somewhere in the
castle and are doing work of some kind. I know it, for now
and then, I hear a far-away muffled sound as of mattock and
spade, and, whatever it is, it must be the end of some ruth-
less villainy.

I had been at the window somewhat less than half an
hour, when I saw something coming out of the Count's window.
I drew back and watched carefully, and saw the whole man
emerge. It was a new shock to me to find that he had on the
suit of clothes which I had worn whilst travelling here, and
slung over his shoulder the terrible bag which I had seen
the women take away. There could be no doubt as to his quest,
and in my garb, too! This, then, is his new scheme of evil,
that he will allow others to see me, as they think, so that
he may both leave evidence that I have been seen in the
towns or villages posting my own letters, and that any
wickedness which he may do shall by the local people be
attributed to me.

It makes me rage to think that this can go on, and
whilst I am shut up here, a veritable prisoner, but without
that protection of the law which is even a criminal's right
and consolation.

I thought I would watch for the Count's return, and for
a long time sat doggedly at the window. Then I began to not-
ice that there were some quaint little specks floating in
the rays of the moonlight. They were like the tiniest grains
of dust,and they whirled round and gathered in clusters in a
nebulous sort of way. I watched them with a sense of soothing,
and a sort of calm stole over me. I leaned back in the embra-
sure in a more comfortable position, so that I could enjoy
more fully the aerial gambolling.

Something made me start up, a low, piteous howling of
dogs somewhere far below in the valley, which was hidden
from my sight. Louder it seemed to ring in my ears, and the
floating moats of dust to take new shapes to the sound as
they danced in the moonlight. I felt myself struggling to
awake to some call of my instincts. Nay, my very soul was
struggling, and my half-remembered sensibilities were striv-
ing to answer the call. I was becoming hypnotised!

Quicker and quicker danced the dust. The moonbeams seem-
ed to quiver as they went by me into the mass of gloom
beyond. More and more they gathered till they seemed to take
dim phantom shapes. And then I started, broad awake and in
full possession of my senses, and ran screaming from the
place.

The phantom shapes, which were becoming gradually mat-
erialised from the moonbeams, were those three ghostly women
to whom I was doomed.

I fled, and felt somewhat safer in my own room, where
there was no moonlight, and where the lamp was burning
brightly.

When a couple of hours had passed I heard something
stirring in the Count's room, something like a sharp wail
quickly suppressed. And then there was silence, deep, awful
silence, which chilled me. With a beating heart, I tried the
door, but I was locked in my prison, and could do nothing. I
sat down and simply cried.

As I sat I heard a sound in the courtyard without, the
agonised cry of a woman. I rushed to the window, and throw-
ing it up, peered between the bars.

There, indeed, was a woman with dishevelled hair, hold-
ing her hands over her heart as one distressed with running.
She was leaning against the corner of the gateway. When she
saw my face at the window she threw herself forward, and
shouted in a voice laden with menace, "Monster, give me my
child!"

She threw herself on her knees,and raising up her hands,
cried the same words in tones which wrung my heart. Then she
tore her hair and beat her breast, and abandoned herself to
all the violences of extravagant emotion. Finally, she threw
herself forward, and though I could not see her, I could hear
the beating of her naked hands against the door.

Somewhere high overhead, probably on the tower, I heard
the voice of the Count calling in his harsh, metallic whisper.
His call seemed to be answered from far and wide by the howl-
ing of wolves. Before many minutes had passed a pack of them
poured, like a pent-up dam when liberated, through the wide
entrance into the courtyard.

There was no cry from the woman, and the howling of the
wolves was but short. Before long they streamed away singly,
licking their lips.

I could not pity her, for I knew now what had become of
her child, and she was better dead.

What shall I do? What can I do? How can I escape from
this dreadful thing of night, gloom, and fear?


25 June.--No man knows till he has suffered from the
night how sweet and dear to his heart and eye the morning
can be. When the sun grew so high this morning that it
struck the top of the great gateway opposite my window, the
high spot which it touched seemed to me as if the dove from
the ark had lighted there. My fear fell from me as if it
had been a vaporous garment which dissolved in the warmth.

I must take action of some sort whilst the courage of
the day is upon me. Last night one of my post-dated letters
went to post, the first of that fatal series which is to
blot out the very traces of my existence from the earth.

Let me not think of it. Action!

It has always been at night-time that I have been mo-
lested or threatened, or in some way in danger or in fear.
I have not yet seen the Count in the daylight. Can it be
that he sleeps when others wake, that he may be awake whilst
they sleep? If I could only get into his room! But there is
no possible way. The door is always locked, no way for me.

Yes, there is a way, if one dares to take it. Where his
body has gone why may not another body go? I have seen him
myself crawl from his window. Why should not I imitate him,
and go in by his window? The chances are desperate, but my
need is more desperate still. I shall risk it. At the worst
it can only be death, and a man's death is not a calf's, and
the dreaded Hereafter may still be open to me. God help me
in my task! Goodbye, Mina, if I fail. Goodbye, my faithful
friend and second father. Goodbye, all, and last of all Mina!


Same day, later.--I have made the effort, and God help-
ing me, have come safely back to this room. I must put down
every detail in order. I went whilst my courage was fresh
straight to the window on the south side, and at once got
outside on this side. The stones are big and roughly cut, and
the mortar has by process of time been washed away between
them. I took off my boots, and ventured out on the desperate
way. I looked down once, so as to make sure that a sudden
glimpse of the awful depth would not overcome me, but after
that kept my eyes away from it. I know pretty well the direc-
tion and distance of the Count's window, and made for it as
well as I could, having regard to the opportunities available.
I did not feel dizzy, I suppose I was too excited, and the
time seemed ridiculously short till I found myself standing
on the window sill and trying to raise up the sash. I was
filled with agitation, however, when I bent down and slid
feet foremost in through the window. Then I looked around for
the Count, but with surprise and gladness, made a discovery.
The room was empty! It was barely furnished with odd things,
which seemed to have never been used.

The furniture was something the same style as that in
the south rooms, and was covered with dust. I looked for the
key, but it was not in the lock, and I could not find it any-
where. The only thing I found was a great heap of gold in
one corner, gold of all kinds, Roman, and British, and Aust-
rian,and Hungarian,and Greek and Turkish money, covered with
a film of dust, as though it had lain long in the ground.
None of it that I noticed was less than three hundred years
old. There were also chains and ornaments, some jewelled, but
all of them old and stained.

At one corner of the room was a heavy door. I tried it,
for, since I could not find the key of the room or the key
of the outer door, which was the main object of my search, I
must make further examination, or all my efforts would be
in vain. It was open, and led through a stone passage to a
circular stairway, which went steeply down.

I descended, minding carefully where I went for the
stairs were dark, being only lit by loopholes in the heavy
masonry. At the bottom there was a dark, tunnel-like pass-
age, through which came a deathly, sickly odour, the odour
of old earth newly turned. As I went through the passage
the smell grew closer and heavier. At last I pulled open
a heavy door which stood ajar, and found myself in an old
ruined chapel, which had evidently been used as a graveyard.
The roof was broken, and in two places were steps leading to
vaults, but the ground had recently been dug over, and the
earth placed in great wooden boxes, manifestly those which
had been brought by the Slovaks.

There was nobody about, and I made a search over every
inch of the ground, so as not to lose a chance. I went down
even into the vaults, where the dim light struggled,although
to do so was a dread to my very soul. Into two of these I
went, but saw nothing except fragments of old coffins and
piles of dust. In the third, however, I made a discovery.

There, in one of the great boxes, of which there were
fifty in all, on a pile of newly dug earth, lay the Count!
He was either dead or asleep. I could not say which, for eyes
were open and stony, but without the glassiness of death,and
the cheeks had the warmth of life through all their pallor.
The lips were as red as ever. But there was no sign of move-
ment, no pulse, no breath, no beating of the heart.

I bent over him, and tried to find any sign of life,
but in vain. He could not have lain there long, for the
earthy smell would have passed away in a few hours. By the
side of the box was its cover, pierced with holes here and
there. I thought he might have the keys on him, but when I
went to search I saw the dead eyes, and in them dead though
they were, such a look of hate, though unconscious of me or
my presence, that I fled from the place, and leaving the
Count's room by the window, crawled again up the castle wall.
Regaining my room, I threw myself panting upon the bed and
tried to think.


29 June.--Today is the date of my last letter, and the
Count has taken steps to prove that it was genuine, for again
I saw him leave the castle by the same window, and in my
clothes. As he went down the wall, lizard fashion, I wished
I had a gun or some lethal weapon, that I might destroy him.
But I fear that no weapon wrought along by man's hand would
have any effect on him. I dared not wait to see him return,
for I feared to see those weird sisters. I came back to the
library, and read there till I fell asleep.

I was awakened by the Count, who looked at me as grimly
as a man could look as he said, "Tomorrow, my friend, we must
part. You return to your beautiful England, I to some work
which may have such an end that we may never meet. Your lett-
er home has been despatched. Tomorrow I shall not be here,
but all shall be ready for your journey. In the morning come
the Szgany, who have some labours of their own here, and al-
so come some Slovaks. When they have gone, my carriage
shall come for you, and shall bear you to the Borgo Pass to
meet the diligence from Bukovina to Bistritz. But I am in
hopes that I shall see more of you at Castle Dracula."

I suspected him, and determined to test his sincerity.
Sincerity! It seems like a profanation of the word to write
it in connection with such a monster, so I asked him point-
blank, "Why may I not go tonight?"

"Because, dear sir, my coachman and horses are away on
a mission."

"But I would walk with pleasure. I want to get away at
once."

He smiled, such a soft, smooth, diabolical smile that I
knew there was some trick behind his smoothness. He said,
"And your baggage?"

"I do not care about it. I can send for it some other
time."

The Count stood up, and said, with a sweet courtesy
which made me rub my eyes, it seemed so real, "You English
have a saying which is close to my heart, for its spirit is
that which rules our boyars, `Welcome the coming, speed the
parting guest.' Come with me, my dear young friend. Not an
hour shall you wait in my house against your will, though sad
am I at your going,and that you so suddenly desire it. Come!"
With a stately gravity, he, with the lamp, preceded me down
the stairs and along the hall. Suddenly he stopped. "Hark!"

Close at hand came the howling of many wolves. It was
almost as if the sound sprang up at the rising of his hand,
just as the music of a great orchestra seems to leap under
the baton of the conductor. After a pause of a moment, he
proceeded, in his stately way, to the door, drew back the
ponderous bolts, unhooked the heavy chains, and began to
draw it open.

To my intense astonishment I saw that it was unlocked.
Suspiciously, I looked all round, but could see no key of
any kind.

As the door began to open, the howling of the wolves
without grew louder and angrier. Their red jaws, with champ-
ing teeth, and their blunt-clawed feet as they leaped, came
in through the opening door. I knew than that to struggle
at the moment against the Count was useless. With such allies
as these at his command, I could do nothing.

But still the door continued slowly to open, and only
the Count's body stood in the gap. Suddenly it struck me
that this might be the moment and means of my doom. I was to
be given to the wolves, and at my own instigation. There was
a diabolical wickedness in the idea great enough for the
Count, and as the last chance I cried out, "Shut the door! I
shall wait till morning." And I covered my face with my
hands to hide my tears of bitter disappointment.

With one sweep of his powerful arm, the Count threw the
door shut, and the great bolts clanged and echoed through
the hall as they shot back into their places.

In silence we returned to the library, and after a min-
ute or two I went to my own room. The last I saw of Count
Dracula was his kissing his hand to me, with a red light of
triumph in his eyes, and with a smile that Judas in hell
might be proud of.

When I was in my room and about to lie down, I thought I
heard a whispering at my door. I went to it softly and list-
ened. Unless my ears deceived me, I heard the voice of the
Count.

"Back! Back to your own place! Your time is not yet
come. Wait! Have patience! Tonight is mine. Tomorrow night
is yours!"

There was a low, sweet ripple of laughter, and in a rage
I threw open the door, and saw without the three terrible
women licking their lips. As I appeared, they all joined in
a horrible laugh, and ran away.

I came back to my room and threw myself on my knees. It
is then so near the end? Tomorrow! Tomorrow! Lord, help me,
and those to whom I am dear!


30 June.--These may be the last words I ever write in
this diary. I slept till just before the dawn, and when I
woke threw myself on my knees, for I determined that if Death
came he should find me ready.

At last I felt that subtle change in the air, and knew
that the morning had come. Then came the welcome cock-crow,
and I felt that I was safe. With a glad heart, I opened the
door and ran down the hall. I had seen that the door was
unlocked, and now escape was before me. With hands that
trembled with eagerness, I unhooked the chains and threw
back the massive bolts.

But the door would not move. Despair seized me. I
pulled and pulled at the door, and shook it till, massive as
it was, it rattled in its casement. I could see the bolt shot.
It had been locked after I left the Count.

Then a wild desire took me to obtain the key at any
risk,and I determined then and there to scale the wall again,
and gain the Count's room. He might kill me, but death now
seemed the happier choice of evils. Without a pause I rushed
up to the east window, and scrambled down the wall,as before,
into the Count's room. It was empty, but that was as I ex-
pected. I could not see a key anywhere, but the heap of gold
remained. I went through the door in the corner and down the
winding stair and along the dark passage to the old chapel. I
knew now well enough where to find the monster I sought.

The great box was in the same place, close against the
wall, but the lid was laid on it, not fastened down, but
with the nails ready in their places to be hammered home.

I knew I must reach the body for the key, so I raised
the lid, and laid it back against the wall. And then I saw
something which filled my very soul with horror. There lay
the Count, but looking as if his youth had been half restored.
For the white hair and moustache were changed to dark iron-
grey. The cheeks were fuller, and the white skin seemed
ruby-red underneath. The mouth was redder than ever, for on
the lips were gouts of fresh blood, which trickled from the
corners of the mouth and ran down over the chin and neck.
Even the deep, burning eyes seemed set amongst swollen flesh,
for the lids and pouches underneath were bloated. It seemed
as if the whole awful creature were simply gorged with blood.
He lay like a filthy leech, exhausted with his repletion.

I shuddered as I bent over to touch him,and every sense
in me revolted at the contact, but I had to search, or I was
lost. The coming night might see my own body a banquet in a
similar war to those horrid three. I felt all over the body,
but no sign could I find of the key. Then I stopped and look-
ed at the Count. There was a mocking smile on the bloated
face which seemed to drive me mad. This was the being I was
helping to transfer to London, where, perhaps, for centuries
to come he might, amongst its teeming millions, satiate his
lust for blood, and create a new and ever-widening circle of
semi-demons to batten on the helpless.

The very thought drove me mad. A terrible desire came
upon me to rid the world of such a monster. There was no
lethal weapon at hand, but I seized a shovel which the work-
men had been using to fill the cases, and lifting it high,
struck, with the edge downward, at the hateful face. But as
I did so the head turned, and the eyes fell upon me, with all
their blaze of basilisk horror. The sight seemed to paralyze
me, and the shovel turned in my hand and glanced from the
face, merely making a deep gash above the forehead. The sho-
vel fell from my hand across the box,and as I pulled it away
the flange of the blade caught the edge of the lid which
fell over again, and hid the horrid thing from my sight. The
last glimpse I had was of the bloated face, blood-stained and
fixed with a grin of malice which would have held its own in
the nethermost hell.

I thought and thought what should be my next move, but
my brain seemed on fire,and I waited with a despairing feel-
ing growing over me. As I waited I heard in the distance
a gipsy song sung by merry voices coming closer, and through
their song the rolling of heavy wheels and the cracking of
whips. The Szgany and the Slovaks of whom the Count had
spoken were coming. With a last look around and at the box
which contained the vile body, I ran from the place and
gained the Count's room, determined to rush out at the moment
the door should be opened. With strained ears, I listened,
and heard downstairs the grinding of the key in the great
lock and the falling back of the heavy door. There must
have been some other means of entry, or some one had a key
for one of the locked doors.

Then there came the sound of many feet tramping and
dying away in some passage which sent up a clanging echo. I
turned to run down again towards the vault, where I might
find the new entrance, but at the moment there seemed to
come a violent puff of wind, and the door to the winding
stair blew to with a shock that set the dust from the lint-
els flying. When I ran to push it open, I found that it
was hopelessly fast. I was again a prisoner, and the net
of doom was closing round me more closely.

As I write there is in the passage below a sound of
many tramping feet and the crash of weights being set down
heavily, doubtless the boxes, with their freight of earth.
There was a sound of hammering. It is the box being nailed
down. Now I can hear the heavy feet tramping again along
the hall, with with many other idle feet coming behind them.

The door is shut, the chains rattle. There is a grind-
ing of the key in the lock. I can hear the key withdrawn,
then another door opens and shuts. I hear the creaking of
lock and bolt.

Hark! In the courtyard and down the rocky way the
roll of heavy wheels, the crack of whips, and the chorus of
the Szgany as they pass into the distance.

I am alone in the castle with those horrible women.
Faugh! Mina is a woman, and there is nought in common. They
are devils of the Pit!

I shall not remain alone with them. I shall try to
scale the castle wall farther than I have yet attempted. I
shall take some of the gold with me, lest I want it later. I
may find a way from this dreadful place.

And then away for home! Away to the quickest and near-
est train! Away from the cursed spot, from this cursed land,
where the devil and his children still walk with earthly
feet!

At least God's mercy is better than that of those mon-
sters, and the precipice is steep and high. At its foot a
man may sleep, as a man. Goodbye, all. Mina!





CHAPTER 5


LETTER FROM MISS MINA MURRAY TO MISS LUCY WESTENRA

9 May.

My dearest Lucy,


Forgive my long delay in writing, but I have been simply
overwhelmed with work. The life of an assistant schoolmist-
ress is sometimes trying. I am longing to be with you, and
by the sea, where we can talk together freely and build our
castles in the air. I have been working very hard lately,
because I want to keep up with Jonathan's studies, and I
have been practicing shorthand very assiduously. When we are
married I shall be able to be useful to Jonathan, and if I
can stenograph well enough I can take down what he wants to
say in this way and write it out for him on the typewriter,
at which also I am practicing very hard.

He and I sometimes write letters in shorthand, and he
is keeping a stenographic journal of his travels abroad.
When I am with you I shall keep a diary in the same way. I
don't mean one of those two-pages-to-the-week-with-Sunday-
squeezed-in-a-corner diaries, but a sort of journal which
I can write in whenever I feel inclined.

I do not suppose there will be much of interest to
other people, but it is not intended for them. I may show
it to Jonathan some day if there is in it anything worth
sharing, but it is really an exercise book. I shall try to
do what I see lady journalists do, interviewing and writing
descriptions and trying to remember conversations. I am told
that, with a little practice, one can remember all that goes
on or that one hears said during a day.

However, we shall see. I will tell you of my little
plans when we meet. I have just had a few hurried lines from
Jonathan from Transylvania. He is well, and will be return-
ing in about a week. I am longing to hear all his news. It
must be nice to see strange countries. I wonder if we, I
mean Jonathan and I, shall ever see them together. There is
the ten o'clock bell ringing. Goodbye.

Your loving

Mina


Tell me all the news when you write. You have not told
me anything for a long time. I hear rumours, and especially
of a tall, handsome, curly-haired man.???



LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY



17, Chatham Street

Wednesday

My dearest Mina,


I must say you tax me very unfairly with being a bad
correspondent. I wrote you twice since we parted, and your
last letter was only your second. Besides, I have nothing
to tell you. There is really nothing to interest you.

Town is very pleasant just now, and we go a great deal
to picture-galleries and for walks and rides in the park. As
to the tall, curly-haired man, I suppose it was the one who
was with me at the last Pop. Someone has evidently been
telling tales.

That was Mr. Holmwood. He often comes to see us, and
he and Mamma get on very well together, they have so many
things to talk about in common.

We met some time ago a man that would just do for you,
if you were not already engaged to Jonathan. He is an
excellant parti, being handsome, well off, and of good birth.
He is a doctor and really clever. Just fancy! He is only
nine-and twenty, and he has an immense lunatic asylum all
under his own care. Mr. Holmwood introduced him to me, and
he called here to see us, and often comes now. I think he
is one of the most resolute men I ever saw, and yet the most
calm. He seems absolutely imperturbable. I can fancy what
a wonderful power he must have over his patients. He has a
curious habit of looking one straight in the face, as if
trying to read one's thoughts. He tries this on very much
with me, but I flatter myself he has got a tough nut to crack.
I know that from my glass.

Do you ever try to read your own face? I do, and I can
tell you it is not a bad study, and gives you more trouble
than you can well fancy if you have never tried it.

He say that I afford him a curious psychological study,
and I humbly think I do. I do not, as you know, take suff-
icient interest in dress to be able to describe the new
fashions. Dress is a bore. That is slang again, but never
mind. Arthur says that every day.

There, it is all out, Mina, we have told all our secrets
to each other since we were children. We have slept together
and eaten together, and laughed and cried together, and now,
though I have spoken, I would like to speak more. Oh, Mina,
couldn't you guess? I love him. I am blushing as I write,
for although I think he loves me, he has not told me so in
words. But, oh, Mina, I love him. I love him! There, that
does me good.

I wish I were with you, dear, sitting by the fire un-
dressing, as we used to sit, and I would try to tell you
what I feel. I do not know how I am writing this even to
you. I am afraid to stop, or I should tear up the letter,
and I don't want to stop, for I do so want to tell you all.
Let me hear from you at once, and tell me all that you think
about it. Mina, pray for my happiness.

Lucy


P.S.--I need not tell you this is a secret. Goodnight
again. L.




LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA MURRAY

24 May

My dearest Mina,


Thanks, and thanks, and thanks again for your sweet
letter. It was so nice to be able to tell you and to have
your sympathy.

My dear, it never rains but it pours. How true the old
proverbs are. Here am I, who shall be twenty in September,
and yet I never had a proposal till today, not a real pro-
posal, and today I had three. Just fancy! Three proposals
in one day! Isn't it awful! I feel sorry, really and truly
sorry, for two of the poor fellows. Oh, Mina, I am so happy
that I don't know what to do with myself. And three propos-
als! But, for goodness' sake, don't tell any of the girls,
or they would be getting all sorts of extravagant ideas, and
imagining themselves injured and slighted if in their very
first day at home they did not get six at least. Some girls
are so vain! You and I, Mina dear, who are engaged and are
going to settle down soon soberly into old married women,
can despise vanity. Well, I must tell you about the three,
but you must keep it a secret, dear, from every one except,
of course, Jonathan. You will tell him, because I would, if
I were in your place, certainly tell Arthur. A woman ought
to tell her husband everything. Don't you think so, dear?
And I must be fair. Men like women, certainly their wives,
to be quite as fair as they are. And women, I am afraid, are
not always quite as fair as they should be.

Well, my dear, number One came just before lunch. I
told you of him, Dr. John Seward, the lunatic asylum man,
with the strong jaw and the good forehead. He was very cool
outwardly, but was nervous all the same. He had evidently
been schooling himself as to all sorts of little things, and
remembered them, but he almost managed to sit down on his
silk hat, which men don't generally do when they are cool,
and then when he wanted to appear at ease he kept playing
with a lancet in a way that made me nearly scream. He spoke
to me, Mina, very straightfordwardly. He told me how dear I
was to him, though he had known me so little, and what his
life would be with me to help and cheer him. He was going to
tell me how unhappy he would be if I did not care for him,
but when he saw me cry he said he was a brute and would not
add to my present trouble. Then he broke off and asked if I
could love him in time, and when I shook my head his hands
trembled, and then with some hesitation he asked me if I
cared already for any one else. He put it very nicely, saying
that he did not want to wring my confidence from me, but on-
ly to know, because if a woman's heart was free a man might
have hope. And then, Mina, I felt a sort of duty to tell
him that there was some one. I only told him that much, and
then he stood up, and he looked very strong and very grave
as he took both my hands in his and said he hoped I would be
happy, and that If I ever wanted a friend I must count him
one of my best.

Oh, Mina dear, I can't help crying, and you must excuse
this letter being all blotted. Being proposed to is all very
nice and all that sort of thing, but it isn't at all a happy
thing when you have to see a poor fellow, whom you know loves
you honestly, going away and looking all broken hearted, and
to know that, no matter what he may say at the moment, you
are passing out of his life. My dear, I must stop here at
present, I feel so miserable, though I am so happy.

Evening.


Arthur has just gone, and I feel in better spirits than
when I left off, so I can go on telling you about the day.

Well, my dear, number Two came after lunch. He is such
a nice fellow,and American from Texas, and he looks so young
and so fresh that it seems almost impossible that he has
been to so many places and has such adventures. I sympathize
with poor Desdemona when she had such a stream poured in her
ear, even by a black man. I suppose that we women are such
cowards that we think a man will save us from fears, and we
marry him. I know now what I would do if I were a man and
wanted to make a girl love me. No, I don't, for there was
Mr. Morris telling us his stories, and Arthur never told any,
and yet. . .

My dear, I am somewhat previous. Mr. Quincy P. Morris
found me alone. It seems that a man always does find a girl
alone. No, he doesn't, for Arthur tried twice to make a
chance, and I helping him all I could, I am not ashamed to
say it now. I must tell you beforehand that Mr. Morris does-
n't always speak slang, that is to say, he never does so to
strangers or before them, for he is really well educated and
has exquisite manners, but he found out that it amused me to
hear him talk American slang,and whenever I was present, and
there was no one to be shocked, he said such funny things. I
am afraid, my dear, he has to invent it all, for it fits
exactly into whatever else he has to say. But this is a way
slang has. I do not know myself if I shall ever speak slang.
I do not know if Arthur likes it, as I have never heard him
use any as yet.

Well, Mr. Morris sat down beside me and looked as happy
and jolly as he could, but I could see all the same that he
was very nervous. He took my hand in his, and said ever so
sweetly. . .

"Miss Lucy, I know I ain't good enough to regulate the
fixin's of your little shoes, but I guess if you wait till
you find a man that is you will go join them seven young wo-
men with the lamps when you quit. Won't you just hitch up
along-side of me and let us go down the long road together,
driving in double harness?"

Well, he did look so hood humoured and so jolly that it
didn't seem half so hard to refuse him as it did poor Dr.
Seward. So I said, as lightly as I could, that I did not
know anything of hitching, and that I wasn't broken to harn-
ess at all yet. Then he said that he had spoken in a light
manner, and he hoped that if he had made a mistake in doing
so on so grave, so momentous, and occasion for him, I would
forgive him. He really did look serious when he was saying
it, and I couldn't help feeling a sort of exultation that he
was number Two in one day. And then, my dear, before I could
say a word he began pouring out a perfect torrent of love-
making, laying his very heart and soul at my feet. He looked
so earnest over it that I shall never again think that a man
must be playful always, and never earnest, because he is
merry at times. I suppose he saw something in my face which
checked him, for he suddenly stopped,and said with a sort of
manly fervour that I could have loved him for if I had been
free. . .

"Lucy, you are an honest hearted girl, I know. I should
not be here speaking to you as I am now if I did not believe
you clean grit, right through to the very depths of your soul.
Tell me, like one good fellow to another, is there any one
else that you care for? And if there is I'll never trouble
you a hair's breadth again, but will be, if you will let me,
a very faithful friend."

My dear Mina, why are men so noble when we women are so
little worthy of them? Here was I almost making fun of this
great hearted, true gentleman. I burst into tears, I am
afraid, my dear, you will think this a very sloppy letter in
more ways than one, and I really felt very badly.

Why can't they let a girl marry three men, or as many as
want her, and save all this trouble? But this is heresy, and
I must not say it. I am glad to say that, though I was cry-
ing, I was able to look into Mr. Morris' brave eyes, and I
told him out straight. . .

"Yes, there is some one I love, though he has not told
me yet that he even loves me." I was right to speak to him
so frankly, for quite a light came into his face, and he put
out both his hands and took mine, I think I put them into
his, and said in a hearty way. . .

"That's my brave girl. It's better worth being late for
a chance of winning you than being in time for any other
girl in the world. Don't cry, my dear. If it's for me, I'm
a hard nut to crack, and I take it standing up. If that
other fellow doesn't know his happiness, well, he'd better
look for it soon, or he'll have to deal with me. Little girl,
your honesty and pluck have made me a friend, and that's
rarer than a lover, it's more selfish anyhow. My dear, I'm
going to have a pretty lonely walk between this and Kingdom
Come. Won't you give me one kiss? It'll be something to keep
off the darkness now and then. You can, you know, if you
like, for that other good fellow, or you could not love him,
hasn't spoken yet."

That quite won me, Mina, for it was brave and sweet of
him, and noble too, to a rival, wasn't it? And he so sad,
so I leant over and kissed him.

He stood up with my two hands in his, and as he looked
down into my face, I am afraid I was blushing very much, he
said, "Little girl, I hold your hand, and you've kissed me,
and if these things don't make us friends nothing ever will.
Thank you for your sweet honesty to me, and goodbye."

He wrung my hand, and taking up his hat, went straight
out of the room without looking back, without a tear or a
quiver or a pause, and I am crying like a baby.

Oh, why must a man like that be made unhappy when there
are lots of girls about who would worship the very ground he
trod on? I know I would if I were free, only I don't want
to be free My dear, this quite upset me, and I feel I
cannot write of happiness just at once, after telling you of
it,and I don't wish to tell of the number Three until it can
be all happy. Ever your loving. . .

Lucy


P.S.--Oh, about number Three, I needn't tell you of
number Three, need I? Besides, it was all so confused. It
seemed only a moment from his coming into the room till both
his arms were round me, and he was kissing me. I am very,
very happy, and I don't know what I have done to deserve it.
I must only try in the future to show that I am not ungrate-
ful to God for all His goodness to me in sending to me such
a lover, such a husband, and such a friend.

Goodbye.

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY
(Kept in phonograph)


25 May.--Ebb tide in appetite today. Cannot eat, can-
not rest, so diary instead. since my rebuff of yesterday I
have a sort of empty feeling. Nothing in the world seems of
sufficient importance to be worth the doing. As I knew that
the only cure for this sort of thing was work, I went amongst
the patients. I picked out one who has afforded me a study
of much interest. He is so quaint that I am determined to
understand him as well as I can. Today I seemed to get nearer
than ever before to the heart of his mystery.

I questioned him more fully than I had ever done, with
a view to making myself master of the facts of his halluci-
nation. In my manner of doing it there was, I now see, some-
thing of cruelty. I seemed to wish to keep him to the point
of his madness, a thing which I avoid with the patients as I
would the mouth of hell.

(Mem., Under what circumstances would I not avoid the
pit of hell?) Omnia Romae venalia sunt. Hell has its price!
If there be anything behind this instinct it will be valu-
able to trace it afterwards accurately, so I had better
commence to do so, therefore. . .

R. M, Renfield, age 59. Sanguine temperament, great
physical strength, morbidly excitable, periods of gloom, end-
ing in some fixed idea which I cannot make out. I presume
that the sanguine temperament itself and the disturbing in-
fluence end in a mentally-accomplished finish, a possibly
dangerous man, probably dangerous if unselfish. In selfish
men caution is as secure an armour for their foes as for
themselves. What I think of on this point is, when self is
the fixed point the centripetal force is balanced with the
centrifugal. When duty, a cause, etc., is the fixed point,
the latter force is paramount, and only accident of a series
of accidents can balance it.


LETTER, QUINCEY P. MORRIS TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMOOD


25 May.

My dear Art,

We've told yarns by the campfire in the prairies, and
dressed one another's wounds after trying a landing at the
Marquesas, and drunk healths on the shore of Titicaca. There
are more yarns to be told,and other wounds to be healed, and
another health to be drunk. Won't you let this be at my
campfire tomorrow night? I have no hesitation in asking you,
as I know a certain lady is engaged to a certain dinner
party, and that you are free. There will only be one other,
our old pal at the Korea, Jack Seward. He's coming, too, and
we both want to mingle our weeps over the wine cup, and to
drink a health with all our hearts to the happiest man in
all the wide world, who has won the noblest heart that God
has made and best worth winning. We promise you a hearty
welcome, and a loving greeting, and a health as true as your
own right hand. We shall both swear to leave you at home if
you drink too deep to a certain pair of eyes. Come!

Yours, as ever and always,

Quincey P. Morris





TELEGRAM FROM ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO QUINCEY P. MORRIS

26 May


Count me in every time. I bear messages which will
make both your ears tingle.

Art





CHAPTER 6


MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


24 July. Whitby.--Lucy met me at the station, looking
sweeter and lovlier than ever, and we drove up to the house
at the Crescent in which they have rooms. This is a lovely
place. The little river, the Esk, runs through a deep vall-
ey, which broadens out as it comes near the harbour. A great
viaduct runs across, with high piers, through which the view
seems somehow further away than it really is. The valley is
beautifully green, and it is so steep that when you are on
the high land on either side you look right across it, un-
less you are near enough to see down. The houses of the old
town--the side away from us, are all red-roofed, and seem
piled up one over the other anyhow, like the pictures we see
of Nuremberg. Right over the town is the ruin of Whitby Abb-
ey, which was sacked by the Danes, and which is the scene of
part of "Marmion," where the girl was built up in the wall.
It is a most noble ruin, of immense size, and full of beaut-
iful and romantic bits. There is a legend that a white lady
is seen in one of the windows. Between it and the town there
is another church, the parish one, round which is a big
graveyard, all full of tombstones. This is to my mind the
nicest spot in Whitby, for it lies right over the town, and
has a full view of the harbour and all up the bay to where
the headland called Kettleness stretches out into the sea. It
descends so steeply over the harbour that part of the bank
has fallen away, and some of the graves have been destroyed.

In one place part of the stonework of the graves stret-
ches out over the sandy pathway far below. There are walks,
with seats beside them, through the churchyard, and people
go and sit there all day long looking at the beautiful view
and enjoying the breeze.

I shall come and sit here often myself and work. Indeed,
I am writing now, with my book on my knee, and listening to
the talk of three old men who are sitting beside me. They
seem to do nothing all day but sit here and talk.

The harbour lies below me, with, on the far side, one
long granite wall stretching out into the sea, with a curve
outwards at the end of it, in the middle of which is a light-
house. A heavy seawall runs along outside of it. On the
near side, the seawall makes an elbow crooked inversely, and
its end too has a lighthouse. Between the two piers there
is a narrow opening into the harbour, which then suddenly
widens.

It is nice at high water, but when the tide is out it
shoals away to nothing,and there is merely the stream of the
Esk, running between banks of sand, with rocks here and
there. Outside the harbour on this side there rises for a-
bout half a mile a great reef, the sharp of which runs
straight out from behind the south lighthouse. At the end of
it is a buoy with a bell, which swings in bad weather, and
sends in a mournful sound on the wind.

They have a legend here that when a ship is lost bells
are heard out at sea. I must ask the old man about this. He
is coming this way. . .

He is a funny old man. He must be awfully old, for his
face is gnarled and twisted like the bark of a tree. He tells
me that he is nearly a hundred, and that he was a sailor in
the Greenland fishing fleet when Waterloo was fought. He is,
I am afraid, a very sceptical person, for when I asked him
about the bells at sea and the White Lady at the abbey he
said very brusquely,

"I wouldn't fash masel' about them, miss. Them things
be all wore out. Mind, I don't say that they never was, but
I do say that they wasn't in my time. They be all very well
for comers and trippers, an' the like, but not for a nice
young lady like you. Them feet-folks from York and Leeds
that be always eatin'cured herrin's and drinkin' tea an'
lookin' out to buy cheap jet would creed aught. I wonder
masel' who'd be bothered tellin' lies to them, even the
newspapers, which is full of fool-talk."

I thought he would be a good person to learn interest-
ing things from, so I asked him if he would mind telling me
something about the whale fishing in the old days. He was
just settling himself to begin when the clock struck six,
whereupon he laboured to get up, and said,

"I must gang ageeanwards home now, miss. My grand-
daughter doesn't like to be kept waitin' when the tea is
ready, for it takes me time to crammle aboon the grees, for
there be a many of `em, and miss, I lack belly-timber sairly
by the clock."

He hobbled away, and I could see him hurrying, as well
as he could, down the steps. The steps are a great feature
on the place. They lead from the town to the church, there
are hundreds of them, I do not know how many, and they wind
up in a delicate curve. The slope is so gentle that a horse
could easily walk up and down them.

I think they must originally have had something to do
with the abbey. I shall go home too. Lucy went out, visit-
ing with her mother, and as they were only duty calls, I did
not go.


1 August.--I came up here an hour ago with Lucy, and we
had a most interesting talk with my old friend and the two
others who always come and join him. He is evidently the Sir
Oracle of them,and I should think must have been in his time
a most dictatorial person.

He will not admit anything, and down faces everybody. If
he can't out-argue them he bullies them,and then takes their
silence for agreement with his views.

Lucy was looking sweetly pretty in her white lawn frock.
She has got a beautiful colour since she has been here.

I noticed that the old men did not lose any time in
coming and sitting near her when we sat down. She is so sweet
with old people, I think they all fell in love with her on
the spot. Even my old man succumbed and did not contradict
her, but gave me double share instead. I got him on the sub-
ject of the legends , and he went off at once into a sort of
sermon. I must try to remember it and put it down.

"It be all fool-talk, lock, stock, and barrel, that's
what it be and nowt else. These bans an' wafts an' boh-ghosts
an' bar-guests an' bogles an' all anent them is only fit to
set bairns an' dizzy women a'belderin'. They be nowt but
air-blebs. They, an' all grims an' signs an' warnin's, be
all invented by parsons an' illsome berk-bodies an' railway
touters to skeer an' scunner hafflin's, an' to get folks to
do somethin' that they don't other incline to. It makes me
ireful to think o' them. Why, it's them that, not content
with printin' lies on paper an' preachin' them ou t of
pulpits, does want to be cuttin' them on the tombstones. Look
here all around you in what airt ye will. All them steans,
holdin' up their heads as well as they can out of their
pride, is acant, simply tumblin' down with the weight o' the
lies wrote on them, `Here lies the body' or `Sacred to the
memory' wrote on all of them, an' yet in nigh half of them
there bean't no bodies at all, an' the memories of them
bean't cared a pinch of snuff about, much less sacred. Lies
all of them, nothin' but lies of one kind or another! My gog,
but it'll be a quare scowderment at the Day of Judgment when
they come tumblin' up in their death-sarks, all jouped toge-
ther an' trying' to drag their tombsteans with them to prove
how good they was, some of them trimmlin' an' dithering, with
their hands that dozzened an' slippery from lyin' in the sea
that they can't even keep their gurp o' them."

I could see from the old fellow's self-satisfied air
and the way in which he looked round for the approval of his
cronies that he was "showing off," so I put in a word to
keep him going.

"Oh, Mr. Swales, you can't be serious. Surely these
tombstones are not all wrong?"

"Yabblins! There may be a poorish few not wrong, savin'
where they make out the people too good, for there be folk
that do think a balm-bowl be like the sea, if only it be
their own. The whole thing be only lies. Now look you here.
You come here a stranger, an' you see this kirkgarth."

I nodded, for I thought it better to assent, though I
did not quite understand his dialect. I knew it had some-
thing to do with the church.

He went on, "And you consate that all these steans be
aboon folk that be haped here, snod an' snog?" I assented
again. "Then that be just where the lie comes in. Why,
there be scores of these laybeds that be toom as old Dun's
`baccabox on Friday night."

He nudged one of his companions, and they all laughed.
"And, my gog! How could they be otherwise? Look at that
one, the aftest abaft the bier-bank, read it!"

I went over and read, "Edward Spencelagh, master marin-
er, murdered by pirates off the coast of Andres, April, 1854,
age 30." When I came back Mr. Swales went on,

"Who brought him home, I wonder, to hap him here? Murd-
ered off the coast of Andres! An' you consated his body lay
under! Why, I could name ye a dozen whose bones lie in the
Greenland seas above," he pointed northwards, "or where the
currants may have drifted them. There be the steans around
ye. Ye can, with your young eyes, read the small print of
the lies from here. This Braithwaite Lowery, I knew his
father, lost in the Lively off Greenland in `20, or Andrew
Woodhouse, drowned in the same seas in 1777, or John Paxton,
drowned off Cape Farewell a year later, or old John Rawlings,
whose grandfather sailed with me, drowned in the Gulf of
Finland in `50. Do ye think that all these men will have to
make a rush to Whitby when the trumpet sounds? I have me
antherums aboot it! I tell ye that when they got here they'd
be jommlin' and jostlin' one another that way that it `ud be
like a fight up on the ice in the old days, when we'd be
at one another from daylight to dark, an' tryin' to tie up
our cuts by the aurora borealis." This was evidently local
pleasantry, for the old man cackled over it, and his cronies
joined in with gusto.

"But," I said, "surely you are not quite correct, for
you start on the assumption that all the poor people, or
their spirits, will have to take their tombstones with them
on the Day of Judgment. Do you think that will be really
necessary?"

"Well, what else be they tombstones for? Answer me
that, miss!"

"To please their relatives, I suppose."

"To please their relatives, you suppose!" This he said
with intense scorn. "How will it pleasure their relatives to
know that lies is wrote over them, and that everybody in the
place knows that they be lies?"

He pointed to a stone at our feet which had been laid
down as a slab, on which the seat was rested, close to the
edge of the cliff. "Read the lies on that thruff-stone," he
said.

The letters were upside down to me from where I sat, but
Lucy was more opposite to them, so she leant over and read,
"Sacred to the memory of George Canon, who died, in the hope
of a glorious resurrection, on July 29,1873, falling from the
rocks at Kettleness. This tomb was erected by his sorrowing
mother to her dearly beloved son.`He was the only son of his
mother, and she was a widow.' Really, Mr. Swales, I don't
see anything very funny in that!" She spoke her comment very
gravely and somewhat severely.

"Ye don't see aught funny! Ha-ha! But that's because ye
don't gawm the sorrowin'mother was a hell-cat that hated him
because he was acrewk'd, a regular lamiter he was, an' he
hated her so that he committed suicide in order that she
mightn't get an insurance she put on his life. He blew nigh
the top of his head off with an old musket that they had for
scarin' crows with. `twarn't for crows then, for it brought
the clegs and the dowps to him. That's the way he fell off
the rocks. And, as to hopes of a glorious resurrection, I've
often heard him say masel' that he hoped he'd go to hell, for
his mother was so pious that she'd be sure to go to heaven,
an' he didn't want to addle where she was. Now isn't that
stean at any rate," he hammered it with his stick as he spoke,
"a pack of lies? And won't it make Gabriel keckle when
Geordie comes pantin' ut the grees with the tompstean balan-
ced on his hump, and asks to be took as evidence!"

I did not know what to say, but Lucy turned the conver-
sation as she said, rising up, "Oh, why did you tell us of
this? It is my favorite seat, and I cannot leave it, and now
I find I must go on sitting over the grave of a suicide."

"That won't harm ye, my pretty, an' it may make poor
Geordie gladsome to have so trim a lass sittin' on his lap.
That won't hurt ye. Why, I've sat here off an' on for nigh
twenty years past, an' it hasn't done me no harm. Don't ye
fash about them as lies under ye, or that doesn' lie there
either! It'll be time for ye to be getting scart when ye see
the tombsteans all run away with, and the place as bare as a
stubble-field. There's the clock, and'I must gang. My service
to ye, ladies!" And off he hobbled.

Lucy and I sat awhile, and it was all so beautiful be-
fore us that we took hands as we sat, and she told me all
over again about Arthur and their coming marriage. That made
me just a little heart-sick, for I haven't heard from Jona-
than for a whole month.


The same day. I came up here alone, for I am very sad.
There was no letter for me. I hope there cannot be anything
the matter with Jonathan. The clock has just struck nine. I
see the lights scattered all over the town, sometimes in rows
where the streets are, and sometimes singly. They run right
up the Esk and die away in the curve of the valley. To my
left the view is cut off by a black line of roof of the old
house next to the abbey. The sheep and lambs are bleating in
the fields away behind me, and there is a clatter of donkeys'
hoofs up the paved road below. The band on the pier is play-
ing a harsh waltz in good time, and further along the quay
there is a Salvation Army meeting in a back street. Neither
of the bands hears the other, but up here I hear and see
them both. I wonder where Jonathan is and if he is thinking
of me! I wish he were here.


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY

5 June.--The case of Renfield grows more interesting the
more I get to understand the man. He has certain qualities
very largely developed, selfishness, secrecy, and purpose.

I wish I could get at what is the object of the latter.
He seems to have some settled scheme of his own, but what it
is I do not know. His redeeming quality is a love of animals,
though, indeed, he has such curious turns in it that I some-
times imagine he is only abnormally cruel. His pets are of
odd sorts.

Just now his hobby is catching flies. He has at pre-
sent such a quantity that I have had myself to expostulate.
To my astonishment, he did not break out into a fury, as I
expected, but took the matter in simple seriousness. He
thought for a moment, and then said, "May I have three days?
I shall clear them away." Of course, I said that would do.
I must watch him.


18 June.--He has turned his mind now to spiders,and has
got several very big fellows in a box. He keeps feeding them
his flies, and the number of the latter is becoming sensibly
diminished, although he has used half his food in attracting
more flies from outside to his room.


1 July.--His spiders are now becoming as great a nui-
sance as his flies, and today I told him that he must get
rid of them.

He looked very sad at this, so I said that he must some
of them, at all events. He cheerfully acquiesced in this,
and I gave him the same time as before for reduction.

He disgusted me much while with him, for when a horrid
blowfly, bloated with some carrion food, buzzed into the
room, he caught it, held it exultantly for a few moments be-
tween his finger and thumb, and before I knew what he was
going to do, put it in his mouth and ate it.

I scolded him for it, but he argued quietly that it was
very good and very wholesome, that it was life, strong life,
and gave life to him. This gave me an idea, or the rudiment
of one. I must watch how he gets rid of his spiders.

He has evidently some deep problem in his mind, for he
keeps a little notebook in which he is always jotting down
something. whole pages of it are filled with masses of fig-
ures, generally single numbers added up in batches, and then
the totals added in batches again, as though he were focuss-
ing some account, as the auditors put it.


8 July.--There is a method in his madness,and the rudi-
mentary idea in my mind is growing. It will be a whole idea
soon, and then, oh, unconscious cerebration, you will have
to give the wall to your conscious brother.

I kept away from my friend for a few days, so that I
might notice if there were any change. Things remain as they
were except that he has parted with some of his pets and got
a new one.

He has managed to get a sparrow, and has already par-
tially tamed it. His means of taming is simple, for already
the spiders have diminshed. Those that do remain, however,
are well fed, for he still brings in the flies by tempting
them with his food.

19 July--We are progressing. My friend has now a whole
colony of sparrows, and his flies and spiders are almost ob-
literated. When I came in he ran to me and said he wanted
to ask me a great favour, a very, very great favour. And as
he spoke, he fawned on me like a dog.

I asked him what it was, and he said, with a sort of
rapture in his voice and bearing, "A kitten, a nice, little,
sleek playful kitten, that I can play with, and teach, and
feed, and feed, and feed!"

I was not unprepared for this request, for I had noticed
how his pets went on increasing in size and vivacity, but I
did not care that his pretty family of tame sparrows should
be wiped out in the same manner as the flies and spiders.
So I said I would see about it, and asked him if he would
not rather have a cat than a kitten.

His eagerness betrayed him as he answered, "Oh, yes, I
would like a cat! I only asked for a kitten lest you should
refuse me a cat. No one would refuse me a kitten, would
they?"

I shook my head, and said that at present I feared it
would not be possible, but that I would see about it. His
face fell, and I could see a warning of danger in it, for
there was a sudden fierce, sidelong look which meant killing.
The man is an undeveloped homicidal maniac. I shall test
him with his present craving and see how it will work out,
then I shall know more.


10 pm.--I have visited him again and found him sitting
in a corner brooding. When I came in he threw himself on
his knees before me and implored me to let him have a cat,
that his salvation depended upon it.

I was firm, however, and told him that he could not
have it, whereupon he went without a word, and sat down,
gnawing his fingers, in the corner where I had found him. I
shall see him in the morning early.


20 July.--Visited Renfield very early, before attendant
went his rounds. Found him up and humming a tune. He was
spreading out his sugar, which he had saved, in the window,
and was manifestly beginning his fly catching again, and be-
ginning it cheerfully and with a good grace.

I looked around for his birds,and not seeing them,asked
him where they were. He replied, without turning round, that
they had all flown away. There were a few feathers about the
room and on his pillow a drop of blood. I said nothing, but
went and told the keeper to report to me if there were any-
thing odd about him during the day.


11 am.--The attendant has just been to see me to say
that Renfield has been very sick and has disgorged a whole
lot of feathers. "My belief is, doctor," he said, "that he
has eaten his birds, and that he just took and ate them raw!"


11 pm.--I gave Renfield a strong opiate tonight, enough
to make even him sleep, and took away his pocketbook to look
at it. The thought that has been buzzing about my brain
lately is complete, and the theory proved.

My homicidal maniac is of a peculiar kind. I shall have
to invent a new classification for him, and call him a zoo-
phagous (life-eating) maniac. What he desires is to absorb
as many lives as he can, and he has laid himself out to ac-
hieve it in a cumulative way. He gave many flies to one
spider and many spiders to one bird, and then wanted a cat
to eat the many birds. What would have been his later steps?

It would almost be worth while to complete the exper-
iment. It might be done if there were only a sufficient
cause. Men sneered at vivisection, and yet look at its re-
sults today! Why not advance science in its most difficult
and vital aspect, the knowledge of the brain?

Had I even the secret of one such mind, did I hold the
key to the fancy of even one lunatic, I might advance my own
branch of science to a pitch compared with which Burdon-
Sanderson's physiology or Ferrier's brain knowledge would be
as nothing. If only there were a sufficient cause! I must
not think too much of this, or I may be tempted. A good
cause might turn the scale with me, for may not I too be of
an exceptional brain, congenitally?

How well the man reasoned. Lunatics always do within
their own scope. I wonder at how many lives he values a man,
or if at only one. He has closed the account most accurately,
and today begun a new record. How many of us begin a new
record with each day of our lives?

To me it seems only yesterday that my whole life ended
with my new hope, and that truly I began a new record. So it
shall be until the Great Recorder sums me up and closes my
ledger account with a balance to profit or loss.

Oh, Lucy, Lucy, I cannot be angry with you, nor can I be
angry with my friend whose happiness is yours, but I must
only wait on hopeless and work. Work! Work!

If I could have as strong a cause as my poor mad friend
there, a good, unselfish cause to make me work, that would
be indeed happiness.


MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


26 July.--I am anxious,and it soothes me to express my-
self here. It is like whispering to one's self and listening
at the same time. And there is also something about the
shorthand symbols that makes it different from writing. I am
unhappy about Lucy and about Jonathan. I had not heard from
Jonathan for some time, and was very concerned, but yesterday
dear Mr. Hawkins, who is always so kind, sent me a letter
from him. I had written asking him if he had heard, and he
said the enclosed had just been received. It is only a line
dated from Castle Dracula, and says that he is just starting
for home. That is not like Jonathan. I do not understand it,
and it makes me uneasy.

Then, too, Lucy , although she is so well, has lately
taken to her old habit of walking in her sleep. Her mother
has spoken to me about it, and we have decided that I am to
lock the door of our room every night.

Mrs. Westenra has got an idea that sleep-walkers always
go out on roofs of houses and along the edges of cliffs and
then get suddenly wakened and fall over with a despairing
cry that echoes all over the place.

Poor dear, she is naturally anxious about Lucy, and she
tells me that her husband, Lucy's father, had the same habit,
that he would get up in the night and dress himself and go
out, if he were not stopped.

Lucy is to be married in the autumn, and she is already
planning out her dresses and how her house is to be arranged.
I sympathise with her, for I do the same, only Jonathan and
I will start in life in a very simple way, and shall have to
try to make both ends meet.

Mr. Holmwood, he is the Hon. Arthur Holmwood, only son
of Lord Godalming, is coming up here very shortly, as soon as
he can leave town, for his father is not very well, and I
think dear Lucy is counting the moments till he comes.

She wants to take him up in the seat on the churchyard
cliff and show him the beauty of Whitby. I daresay it is the
waiting which disturbs her. She will be all right when he
arrives.


27 July.--No news from Jonathan. I am getting quite un-
easy about him, though why I should I do not know, but I do
wish that he would write, if it were only a single line.

Lucy walks more than ever, and each night I am awakened
by her moving about the room. Fortunately, the weather is so
hot that she cannot get cold. But still, the anxiety and the
perpetually being awakened is beginning to tell on me, and I
am getting nervous and wakeful myself. Thank God, Lucy's
health keeps up. Mr. Holmwood has been suddenly called to
Ring to see his father, who has been taken seriously ill.
Lucy frets at the postponement of seeing him, but it does
not touch her looks. She is a trifle stouter, and her cheeks
are a lovely rose-pink. She has lost the anemic look which
she had. I pray it will all last.


3 August.--Another week gone by, and no news from Jona-
than, not even to Mr. Hawkins, from whom I have heard. Oh,
I do hope he is not ill. He surely would have written. I
look at that last letter of his, but somehow it does not
satisfy me. It does not read like him, and yet it is his
writing. There is no mistake of that.

Lucy has not walked much in her sleep the last week, but
there is an odd concentration about her which I do not under-
stand, even in her sleep she seems to be watching me. She
tries the door, and finding it locked, goes about the room
searching for the key.


6 August.--Another three days, and no news. This sus-
pense is getting dreadful. If I only knew where to write to
or where to go to, I should feel easier. But no one has
heard a word of Jonathan since that last letter. I must
only pray to God for patience.

Lucy is more excitable than ever, but is otherwise well.
Last night was very threatening, and the fishermen say that
we are in for a storm. I must try to watch it and learn the
weather signs.

Today is a gray day,and the sun as I write is hidden in
thick clouds, high over Kettleness. Everything is gray except
the green grass, which seems like emerald amongst it, gray
earthy rock, gray clouds, tinged with the sunburst at the far
edge, hang over the gray sea, into which the sandpoints
stretch like gray figures. The sea is tumbling in over the
shallows and the sandy flats with a roar, muffled in the
sea-mists drifting inland. The horizon is lost in a gray
mist. All vastness, the clouds are piled up like giant
rocks, and there is a `brool' over the sea that sounds like
some passage of doom. Dark figures are on the beach here and
there, sometimes half shrouded in the mist, and seem `men
like trees walking'. The fishing boats are racing for home,
and rise and dip in the ground swell as they sweep into the
harbour, bending to the scuppers. Here comes old Mr. Swales.
He is making straight for me, and I can see, by the way he
lifts his hat, that he wants to talk.


I have been quite touched by the change in the poor old
man. When he sat down beside me, he said in a very gentle
way, "I want to say something to you, miss."

I could see he was not at ease, so I took his poor old
wrinkled hand in mine and asked him to speak fully.

So he said, leaving his hand in mine, "I'm afraid, my
deary, that I must have shocked you by all the wicked things
I've been sayin' about the dead, and such like, for weeks
past, but I didn't mean them, and I want ye to remember that
when I'm gone. We aud folks that be daffled, and with one
foot abaft the krok-hooal, don't altogether like to think of
it, and we don't want to feel scart of it, and that's why
I've took to makin' light of it, so that I'd cheer up my
own heart a bit. But, Lord love ye, miss, I ain't afraid of
dyin', not a bit, only I don't want to die if I can help it.
My time must be nigh at hand now, for I be aud, and a hundred
years is too much for any man to expect. And I'm so nigh it
that the Aud Man is already whettin' his scythe. Ye see, I
can't get out o' the habit of caffin' about it all at once.
The chafts will wag as they be used to. Some day soon the
Angel of Death will sound his trumpet for me. But don't ye
dooal an' greet, my deary!"--for he saw that I was crying--
"if he should come this very night I'd not refuse to answer
his call. For life be, after all, only a waitin' for some-
thin' else than what we're doin', and death be all that we
can rightly depend on. But I'm content, for it's comin' to
me, my deary, and comin' quick. It may be comin' while we be
lookin' and wonderin'. Maybe it's in that wind out over the
sea that's bringin' with it loss and wreck, and sore dis-
tress, and sad hearts. Look! Look!" he cried suddenly.
"There's something in that wind and in the hoast beyont that
sounds, and looks, and tastes, and smells like death. It's
in the air. I feel it comin'. Lord, make me answer cheerful,
when my call comes!" He held up his arms devoutly, and rai-
sed his hat. His mouth moved as though he were praying.
After a few minutes' silence, he got up, shook hands with me,
and blessed me, and said good-bye, and hobbled off. It all
touched me, and upset me very much.

I was glad when the coastguard came along, with his
spyglass under his arm. He stopped to talk with me, as he
always does, but all the time kept looking at a strange ship.

"I can't make her out," he said. "She's a Russian, by
the look of her. But she's knocking about in the queerest
way. She doesn't know her mind a bit. She seems to see the
storm coming, but can't decide whether to run up north in the
open, or to put in here. Look there again! She is steered
mighty strangely, for she doesn't mind the hand on the wheel,
changes about with every puff of wind. We'll hear more of
her before this time tomorrow."




CHAPTER 7


CUTTING FROM "THE DAILYGRAPH," 8 AUGUST


(PASTED IN MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL)


From a correspondent.


Whitby.


One of the greatest and suddenest storms on record has
just been experienced here, with results both strange and
unique. The weather had been somewhat sultry, but not to
any degree uncommon in the month of August. Saturday even-
ing was as fine as was ever known, and the great body of
holiday-makers laid out yesterday for visits to Mulgrave
Woods, Robin Hood's Bay, Rig Mill, Runswick, Staithes, and
the various trips in the neighborhood of Whitby. The
steamers Emma and Scarborough made trips up and down the
coast, and there was an unusual amount of `tripping' both
to and from Whitby. The day was unusually fine till the
afternoon, when some of the gossips who frequent the East
Cliff churchyard, and from the commanding eminence watch
the wide sweep of sea visible to the north and east, called
attention to a sudden show of `mares tails' high in the sky
to the northwest. The wind was then blowing from the south-
west in the mild degree which in barometrical language is
ranked `No. 2, light breeze.'

The coastguard on duty at once made report, and one old
fisherman, who for more than half a century has kept watch on
weather signs from the East Cliff, foretold in an emphatic
manner the coming of a sudden storm. The approach of sunset
was so very beautiful, so grand in its masses of splendidly
coloured clouds, that there was quite an assemblage on the
walk along the cliff in the old churchyard to enjoy the
beauty.  Before the sun dipped below the black mass of Kettle-
ness, standing boldly athwart the western sky, its downward
was was marked by myriad clouds of every sunset colour,
flame, purple, pink, green, violet, and all the tints of
gold, with here and there masses not large, but of seemingly
absolute blackness, in all sorts of shapes, as well outlined
as colossal silhouettes. The experience was not lost on the
painters, and doubtless some of the sketches of the `Prelude
to the Great Storm' will grace the R. A and R. I. walls in
May next.

More than one captain made up his mind then and there
that his `cobble' or his `mule', as they term the different
classes of boats, would remain in the harbour till the storm
had passed. The wind fell away entirely during the evening,
and at midnight there was a dead calm, a sultry heat, and
that prevailing intensity which, on the approach of thunder,
affects persons of a sensitive nature.

There were but few lights in sight at sea, for even
the coasting steamers, which usually hug the shore so closely,
kept well to seaward,and but few fishing boats were in sight.
The only sail noticeable was a foreign schooner with all
sails set, which was seemingly going westwards. The foolhard-
iness or ignorance of her officers was a prolific theme for
comment whilst she remained in sight, and efforts were made
to signal her to reduce sail in the face of her danger. Be-
fore the night shut down she was seen with sails idly flapp-
ing as she gently rolled on the undulating swell of the sea.

"As idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean."


Shortly before ten o'clock the stillness of the air
grew quite oppressive,and the silence was so marked that the
bleating of a sheep inland or the barking of a dog in the
town was distinctly heard, and the band on the pier, with
its lively French air, was like a dischord in the great har-
mony of nature's silence. A little after midnight came a
strange sound from over the sea, and high overhead the air
began to carry a strange, faint, hollow booming.

Then without warning the tempest broke. With a rapidity
which, at the time, seemed incredible,and even afterwards is
impossible to realize, the whole aspect of nature at once
became convulsed. The waves rose in growing fury, each over-
topping its fellow, till in a very few minutes the lately
glassy sea was like a roaring and devouring monster. White-
crested waves beat madly on the level sands and rushed up
the shelving cliffs. Others broke over the piers, and with
their spume swept the lanthorns of the lighthouses which
rise from the end of either pier of Whitby Harbour.

The wind roared like thunder, and blew with such force
that it was with difficulty that even strong men kept their
feet, or clung with grim clasp to the iron stanchions. It
was found necessary to clear the entire pier from the mass
of onlookers, or else the fatalities of the night would have
increased manifold. To add to the difficulties and dangers
of the time, masses of sea-fog came drifting inland. White,
wet clouds, which swept by in ghostly fashion, so dank and
damp and cold that it needed but little effort of imagina-
tion to think that the spirits of those lost at sea were
touching their living brethren with the clammy hands of
death, and many a one shuddered at the wreaths of sea-mist
swept by.

At times the mist cleared, and the sea for some dis-
tance could be seen in the glare of the lightning, which
came thick and fast, followed by such peals of thunder that
the whole sky overhead seemed trembling under the shock of
the footsteps of the storm.

Some of the scenes thus revealed were of immeasurable
grandeur and of absorbing interest. The sea, running mount-
ains high, threw skywards with each wave mighty masses of
white foam, which the tempest seemed to snatch at and whirl
away into space. Here and there a fishing boat, with a rag
of sail, running madly for shelter before the blast, now and
again the white wings of a storm-tossed seabird. On the
summit of the East Cliff the new searchlight was ready for
experiment, but had not yet been tried. The officers in
charge of it got it into working order, and in the pauses of
onrushing mist swept with it the surface of the sea. Once or
twice its service was most effective, as when a fishing boat,
with gunwale under water, rushed into the harbour, able, by
the guidance of the sheltering light, to avoid the danger of
dashing against the piers. As each boat achieved the safety
of the port there was a shout of joy from the mass of people
on the shore,a shout which for a moment seemed to cleave the
gale and was then swept away in its rush.

Before long the searchlight discovered some distance
away a schooner with all sails set, apparently the same ves-
sel which had been noticed earlier in the evening. The wind
had by this time backed to the east, and there was a shudder
amongst the watchers on the cliff as they realized the terr-
ible danger in which she now was.

Between her and the port lay the great flat reef on
which so many good ships have from time to time suffered,
and, with the wind blowing from its present quarter, it would
be quite impossible that she should fetch the entrance of
the harbour.

It was now nearly the hour of high tide, but the waves
were so great that in their troughs the shallows of the
shore were almost visible, and the schooner, with all sails
set, was rushing with such speed that, in the words of one
old salt, "she must fetch up somewhere, if it was only in
hell". Then came another rush of sea-fog, greater than any
hitherto, a mass of dank mist, which seemed to close on all
things like a gray pall, and left available to men only the
organ of hearing, for the roar of the tempest, and the crash
of the thunder, and the booming of the mighty billows came
through the damp oblivion even louder than before. The rays
of the searchlight were kept fixed on the harbour mouth
across the East Pier, where the shock was expected, and men
waited breathless.

The wind suddenly shifted to the northeast, and the
remnant of the sea fog melted in the blast. And then,
mirabile dictu, between the piers, leaping from wave to wave
as it rushed at headlong speed, swept the strange schooner
before the blast, with all sail set, and gained the safety
of the harbour. The searchlight followed her, and a shudder
ran through all who saw her, for lashed to the helm was a
corpse, with drooping head, which swung horribly to and fro
at each motion of the ship. No other form could be seen on
the deck at all.

A great awe came on all as they realised that the ship,
as if by a miracle, had found the harbour, unsteered save by
the hand of a dead man! However, all took place more quickly
than it takes to write these words. The schooner paused not,
but rushing across the harbour, pitched herself on that
accumulation of sand and gravel washed by many tides and
many storms into the southeast corner of the pier jutting
under the East Cliff, known locally as Tate Hill Pier.

There was of course a considerable concussion as the
vessel drove up on the sand heap. Every spar, rope, and stay
was strained,and some of the `top-hammer' came crashing down.
But, strangest of all, the very instant the shore was touched,
an immense dog sprang up on deck from below,as if shot up by
the concussion, and running forward, jumped from the bow on
the sand.

Making straight for the steep cliff, where the church-
yard hangs over the laneway to the East Pier so steeply that
some of the flat tombstones, thruffsteans or through-stones,
as they call them in Whitby vernacular, actually project
over where the sustaining cliff has fallen away, it disa-
ppeared in the darkness, which seemed intensified just
beyond the focus of the searchlight.

It so happened that there was no one at the moment on
Tate Hill Pier, as all those whose houses are in close prox-
imity were either in bed or were out on the heights above.
Thus the coastguard on duty on the eastern side of the har-
bour, who at once ran down to the little pier, was the first
to climb aboard. The men working the searchlight, after
scouring the entrance of the harbour without seeing anything,
then turned the light on the derelict and kept it there. The
coastguard ran aft, and when he came beside the wheel, bent
over to examine it,and recoiled at once as though under some
sudden emotion. This seemed to pique general curiosity, and
quite a number of people began to run.

It is a good way round from the West Cliff by the Draw-
bridge to Tate Hill Pier, but your correspondent is a fairly
good runner, and came well ahead of the crowd. When I arri-
ved, however, I found already assembled on the pier a crowd,
whom the coastguard and police refused to allow to come on
board. By the courtesy of the chief boatman, I was, as your
correspondent, permitted to climb on deck, and was one of a
small group who saw the dead seaman whilst actually lashed
to the wheel.

It was no wonder that the coastguard was surprised, or
even awed, for not often can such a sight have been seen.
The man was simply fastened by his hands, tied one over the
other, to a spoke of the wheel. Between the inner hand and
the wood was a crucifix, the set of beads on which it was
fastened being around both wrists and wheel, and all kept
fast by the binding cords. The poor fellow may have been
seated at one time, but the flapping and buffeting of the
sails had worked through the rudder of the wheel and had
dragged him to and fro, so that the cords with which he
was tied had cut the flesh to the bone.

Accurate note was made of the state of things, and a
doctor, Surgeon J. M. Caffyn, of 33, East Elliot Place, who
came immediately after me, declared, after making examina-
tion, that the man must have been dead for quite two days.

In his pocket was a bottle, carefully corked, empty
save for a little roll of paper, which proved to be the
addendum to the log.

The coastguard said the man must have tied up his own
hands, fastening the knots with his teeth. The fact that a
coastguard was the first on board may save some complica-
tions later on, in the Admiralty Court, for coastguards
cannot claim the salvage which is the right of the first
civilian entering on a derelict. Already, however, the legal
tongues are wagging, and one young law student is loudly
asserting that the rights of the owner are already complete-
ly sacrificed, his property being held in contravention of
the statues of mortmain, since the tiller, as emblemship, if
not proof, of delegated possession, is held in a dead hand.

It is needless to say that the dead steersman has been
reverently removed from the place where he held his honour-
able watch and ward till death, a steadfastness as noble as
that of the young Casabianca, and placed in the mortuary to
await inquest.

Already the sudden storm is passing,and its fierceness
is abating. Crowds are scattering backward, and the sky is
beginning to redden over the Yorkshire wolds.

I shall send, in time for your next issue, further de-
tails of the derelict ship which found her way so miracu-
lously into harbour in the storm.


9 August.--The sequel to the strange arrival of the
derelict in the storm last night is almost more startling
than the thing itself. It turns out that the schooner is
Russian from Varna, and is called the Demeter. She is almost
entirely in ballast of silver sand, with only a small amount
of cargo, a number of great wooden boxes filled with mould.

This cargo was consigned to a Whitby solicitor, Mr. S.F.
Billington, of 7, The Crescent, who this morning went aboard
and took formal possession of the goods consigned to him.

The Russian consul, too, acting for the charter-party,
took formal possession of the ship, and paid all harbour
dues, etc.

Nothing is talked about here today except the strange
coincidence. The officials of the Board of Trade have been
most exacting in seeing that every compliance has been made
with existing regulations. As the matter is to be a `nine
days wonder', they are evidently determined that there shall
be no cause of other complaint.

A good deal of interest was abroad concerning the dog
which landed when the ship struck, and more than a few of
the members of the S.P.C.A., which is very strong in Whitby,
have tried to befriend the animal. To the general disa-
ppointment, however, it was not to be found. It seems to
have disappeared entirely from the town. It may be that it
was frightened and made its way on to the moors, where it is
still hiding in terror.

There are some who look with dread on such a possibil-
ity, lest later on it should in itself become a danger, for
it is evidently a fierce brute. Early this morning a large
dog, a half-bred mastiff belonging to a coal merchant close
to Tate Hill Pier, was found dead in the roadway opposite
its master's yard. It had been fighting, and manifestly had
had a savage opponent, for its throat was torn away, and its
belly was slit open as if with a savage claw.


Later.--By the kindness of the Board of Trade inspector,
I have been permitted to look over the log book of the Deme-
ter, which was in order up to within three days, but con-
tained nothing of special interest except as to facts of
missing men. The greatest interest, however, is with regard
to the paper found in the bottle, which was today produced at
the inquest. And a more strange narrative than the two bet-
ween them unfold it has not been my lot to come across.

As there is no motive for concealment, I am permitted to
use them, and accordingly send you a transcript, simply
omitting technical details of seamanship and supercargo. It
almost seems as though the captain had been seized with some
kind of mania before he had got well into blue water, and
that this had developed persistently throughout the voyage.
Of course my statement must be taken cum grano, since I am
writing from the dictation of a clerk of the Russian consul,
who kindly translated for me, time being short.

LOG OF THE "DEMETER"
Varna to Whitby


Written 18 July, things so strange happening, that I
shall keep accurate note henceforth till we land.


On 6 July we finished taking in cargo, silver sand and
boxes of earth. At noon set sail. East wind, fresh. Crew,
five hands. . .two mates, cook, and myself, (captain).


On 11 July at dawn entered Bosphorus. Boarded by
Turkish Customs officers. Backsheesh. All correct. Under
way at 4 p. m.


On 12 July through Dardanelles. More Customs officers
and flagboat of guarding squadron. Backsheesh again. Work
of officers thorough, but quick. Want us off soon. At dark
passed into Archipelago.


On 13 July passed Cape Matapan. Crew dissatisfied about
something. Seemed scared, but would not speak out.


On 14 July was somewhat anxious about crew. Men all
steady fellows, who sailed with me before. Mate could not
make out what was wrong. They only told him there was SOME-
THING, and crossed themselves. Mate lost temper with one of
them that day and struck him. Expected fierce quarrel, but
all was quiet.


On 16 July mate reported in the morning that one of the
crew, Petrofsky, was missing. Could not account for it. Took
larboard watch eight bells last night, was relieved by Amra-
moff, but did not go to bunk. Men more downcast than ever.
All said they expected something of the kind, but would not
say more than there was SOMETHING aboard. Mate getting very
impatient with them. Feared some trouble ahead.


On 17 July, yesterday, one of the men, Olgaren, came to
my cabin, and in an awestruck way confided to me that he
thought there was a strange man aboard the ship. He said that
in his watch he had been sheltering behind the deckhouse, as
there was a rain storm, when he saw a tall, thin man, who was
not like any of the crew, come up the companionway, and go
along the deck forward and disappear. He followed cautiously,
but when he got to bows found no one, and the hatchways were
all closed. He was in a panic of superstitious fear, and I
am afraid the panic may spread. To allay it, I shall today
search the entire ship carefully from stem to stern.


Later in the day I got together the whole crew, and told
them, as they evidently thought there was some one in the
ship, we would search from stem to stern. First mate angry,
said it was folly, and to yield to such foolish ideas would
demoralise the men, said he would engage to keep them out of
trouble with the handspike. I let him take the helm, while
the rest began a thorough search, all keeping abreast, with
lanterns. We left no corner unsearched. As there were only
the big wooden boxes, there were no odd corners where a man
could hide. Men much relieved when search over, and went
back to work cheerfully. First mate scowled, but said nothing.


22 July.--Rough weather last three days, and all hands
busy with sails, no time to be frightened. Men seem to have
forgotten their dread. Mate cheerful again, and all on good
terms. Praised men for work in bad weather. Passed Gibral-
tar and out through Straits. All well.


24 July.--There seems some doom over this ship. Already
a hand short, and entering the Bay of Biscay with wild wea-
ther ahead, and yet last night another man lost, disappeared.
Like the first, he came off his watch and was not seen again.
Men all in a panic of fear, sent a round robin, asking to
have double watch, as they fear to be alone. Mate angry.
Fear there will be some trouble, as either he or the men will
do some violence.


28 July.--Four days in hell, knocking about in a sort of
malestrom, and the wind a tempest. No sleep for any one. Men
all worn out. Hardly know how to set a watch, since no one
fit to go on. Second mate volunteered to steer and watch,
and let men snatch a few hours sleep. Wind abating, seas
still terrific, but feel them less, as ship is steadier.


29 July.--Another tragedy. Had single watch tonight, as
crew too tired to double. When morning watch came on deck
could find no one except steersman. Raised outcry, and all
came on deck. Thorough search, but no one found. Are now
without second mate, and crew in a panic. Mate and I agreed
to go armed henceforth and wait for any sign of cause.


30 July.--Last night. Rejoiced we are nearing England.
Weather fine, all sails set. Retired worn out, slept sound-
ly, awakened by mate telling me that both man of watch and
steersman missing. Only self and mate and two hands left to
work ship.


1 August.--Two days of fog, and not a sail sighted. Had
hoped when in the English Channel to be able to signal for
help or get in somewhere. Not having power to work sails,
have to run before wind. Dare not lower, as could not raise
them again. We seem to be drifting to some terrible doom.
Mate now more demoralised than either of men. His stronger
nature seems to have worked inwardly against himself. Men
are beyond fear, working stolidly and patiently, with minds
made up to worst. They are Russian, he Roumanian.


2 August, midnight.--Woke up from few minutes sleep by
hearing a cry, seemingly outside my port. Could see nothing
in fog. Rushed on deck, and ran against mate. Tells me he
heard cry and ran, but no sign of man on watch. One more
gone. Lord, help us! Mate says we must be past Straits of
Dover, as in a moment of fog lifting he saw North Foreland,
just as he heard the man cry out. If so we are now off in
the North Sea, and only God can guide us in the fog, which
seems to move with us, and God seems to have deserted us.


3 August.--At midnight I went to relieve the man at the
wheel and when I got to it found no one there. The wind was
steady, and as we ran before it there was no yawing. I dared
not leave it, so shouted for the mate. After a few seconds,
he rushed up on deck in his flannels. He looked wild-eyed
and haggard, and I greatly fear his reason has given way. He
came close to me and whispered hoarsely, with his mouth to
my ear, as though fearing the very air might hear. "It is
here. I know it now. On the watch last night I saw It,
like a man, tall and thin, and ghastly pale. It was in the
bows, and looking out. I crept behind It, and gave it my
knife, but the knife went through It, empty as the air." And
as he spoke he took the knife and drove it savagely into
space. Then he went on, "But It is here, and I'll find It.
It is in the hold, perhaps in one of those boxes. I'll un-
screw them one by one and see. You work the helm." And with
a warning look and his finger on his lip, he went below.
There was springing up a choppy wind, and I could not leave
the helm. I saw him come out on deck again with a tool chest
and lantern, and go down the forward hatchway. He is mad,
stark, raving mad, and it's no use my trying to stop him. He
can't hurt those big boxes, they are invoiced as clay, and
to pull them about is as harmless a thing as he can do. So
here I stay and mind the helm, and write these notes. I can
only trust in God and wait till the fog clears. Then, if I
can't steer to any harbour with the wind that is, I shall
cut down sails, and lie by, and signal for help. . .

It is nearly all over now. Just as I was beginning to
hope that the mate would come out calmer, for I heard him
knocking away at something in the hold, and work is good for
him, there came up the hatchway a sudden, startled scream,
which made my blood run cold, and up on the deck he came as
if shot from a gun, a raging madman, with his eyes rolling
and his face convulsed with fear. "Save me! Save me!" he
cried, and then looked round on the blanket of fog. His
horror turned to despair, and in a steady voice he said, "You
had better come too, captain, before it is too late. He is
there! I know the secret now. The sea will save me from
Him, and it is all that is left!" Before I could say a word,
or move forward to seize him, he sprang on the bulwark and
deliberately threw himself into the sea. I suppose I know
the secret too, now. It was this madman who had got rid of
the men one by one, and now he has followed them himself.
God help me! How am I to account for all these horrors when
I get to port? When I get to port! Will that ever be?


4 August.--Still fog, which the sunrise cannot pierce, I
know there is sunrise because I am a sailor, why else I know
not. I dared not go below, I dared not leave the helm, so
here all night I stayed, and in the dimness of the night I
saw it, Him! God, forgive me, but the mate was right to
jump overboard. It was better to die like a man. To die
like a sailor in blue water, no man can object. But I am
captain, and I must not leave my ship. But I shall baffle
this fiend or monster, for I shall tie my hands to the wheel
when my strength begins to fail, and along with them I shall
tie that which He, It, dare not touch. And then, come good
wind or foul, I shall save my soul, and my honour as a
captain. I am growing weaker, and the night is coming on. If
He can look me in the face again, I may not have time to
act. . . If we are wrecked, mayhap this bottle may be found,
and those who find it may understand. If not. . .well,
then all men shall know that I have been true to my trust.
God and the Blessed Virgin and the Saints help a poor ignor-
ant soul trying to do his duty. . .


Of course the verdict was an open one. There is no
evidence to adduce, and whether or not the man himself comm-
itted the murders there is now none to say. The folk here
hold almost universally that the captain is simply a hero,
and he is to be given a public funeral. Already it is arran-
ged that his body is to be taken with a train of boats up
the Esk for a piece and then brought back to Tate Hill Pier
and up the abbey steps, for he is to be buried in the church-
yard on the cliff. The owners of more than a hundred boats
have already given in their names as wishing to follow him
to the grave.

No trace has ever been found of the great dog, at which
there is much mourning, for, with public opinion in its pre-
sent state, he would, I believe, be adopted by the town. To-
morrow will see the funeral, and so will end this one more
`mystery of the sea'.



MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


8 August.--Lucy was very restless all night, and I too,
could not sleep. The storm was fearful, and as it boomed
loudly among the chimney pots, it made me shudder. When a
sharp puff came it seemed to be like a distant gun. Strange-
ly enough, Lucy did not wake, but she got up twice and dress-
ed herself. Fortunately, each time I awoke in time and
managed to undress her without waking her, and got her back
to bed. It is a very strange thing, this sleep-walking, for
as soon as her will is thwarted in any physical way, her in-
tention, if there be any, disappears, and she yields herself
almost exactly to the routine of her life.

Early in the morning we both got up and went down to
the harbour to see if anything had happened in the night.
There were very few people about, and though the sun was
bright, and the air clear and fresh, the big, grim-looking
waves, that seemed dark themselves because the foam that
topped them was like snow, forced themselves in through the
mouth of the harbour, like a bullying man going through a
crowd. Somehow I felt glad that Jonathan was not on the sea
last night, but on land. But, oh, is he on land or sea?
Where is he, and how? I am getting fearfully anxious about
him. If I only knew what to do, and could do anything!


10 August.--The funeral of the poor sea captain today
was most touching. Every boat in the harbour seemed to be
there, and the coffin was carried by captains all the way
from Tate Hill Pier up to the churchyard. Lucy came with
me, and we went early to our old seat, whilst the cortege
of boats went up the river to the Viaduct and came down
again. We had a lovely view, and saw the procession nearly
all the way. The poor fellow was laid to rest near our seat
so that we stood on it, when the time came and saw everything.

Poor Lucy seemed much upset. She was restless and
uneasy all the time, and I cannot but think that her dreaming
at night is telling on her. She is quite odd in one thing.
She will not admit to me that there is any cause for rest-
lessness, or if there be, she does not understand it herself.

There is an additional cause in that poor Mr. Swales
was found dead this morning on our seat, his neck being
broken. He had evidently, as the doctor said, fallen back
in the seat in some sort of fright, for there was a look of
fear and horror on his face that the men said made them
shudder. Poor dear old man!

Lucy is so sweet and sensitive that she feels influ-
ences more acutely than other people do. Just now she was
quite upset by a little thing which I did not much heed,
though I am myself very fond of animals.

One of the men who came up here often to look for the
boats was followed by his dog. The dog is always with him.
They are both quiet persons, and I never saw the man angry,
nor heard the dog bark. During the service the dog would not
come to its master, who was on the seat with us, but kept a
few yards off, barking and howling. Its master spoke to it
gently, and then harshly, and then angrily. But it would
neither come nor cease to make a noise. It was in a fury,
with its eyes savage, and all its hair bristling out like a
cat's tail when puss is on the war path.

Finally the man too got angry, and jumped down and
kicked the dog, and then took it by the scruff of the neck
and half dragged and half threw it on the tombstone on which
the seat is fixed. The moment it touched the stone the poor
thing began to tremble. It did not try to get away, but
crouched down, quivering and cowering, and was in such a
pitiable state of terror that I tried, though without effect,
to comfort it.

Lucy was full of pity, too, but she did not attempt to
touch the dog, but looked at it in an agonised sort of way.
I greatly fear that she is of too super sensitive a nature
to go through the world without trouble. She will be dream-
ing of this tonight, I am sure. The whole agglomeration of
things, the ship steered into port by a dead man, his atti-
tude, tied to the wheel with a crucifix and beads, the
touching funeral, the dog, now furious and now in terror,
will all afford material for her dreams.

I think it will be best for her to go to bed tired out
physically, so I shall take her for a long walk by the
cliffs to Robin Hood's Bay and back. She ought not to have
much inclination for sleep-walking then.





CHAPTER 8


MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL


Same day, 11 o'clock P.M.--Oh, but I am tired! If it
were not that I had made my diary a duty I should not open
it tonight. We had a lovely walk. Lucy, after a while, was
in gay spirits, owing, I think, to some dear cows who came
nosing towards us in a field close to the lighthouse, and
frightened the wits out of us. I believe we forgot every-
thing, except of course, personal fear, and it seemed to wipe
the slate clean and give us a fresh start. We had a capital
`severe tea' at Robin Hood's Bay in a sweet little old-
fashioned inn, with a bow window right over the seaweed-
covered rocks of the strand. I believe we should have shock-
ed the `New Woman' with our appetites. Men are more tolerant,
bless them! Then we walked home with some, or rather many,
stoppages to rest, and with our hearts full of a constant
dread of wild bulls.

Lucy was really tired, and we intended to creep off to
bed as soon as we could. The young curate came in, however,
and Mrs. Westenra asked him to stay for supper. Lucy and I
had both a fight for it with the dusty miller. I know it was
a hard fight on my part, and I am quite heroic. I think that
some day the bishops must get together and see about breed-
ing up a new class of curates, who don't take supper, no
matter how hard they may be pressed to, and who will know
when girls are tired.

Lucy is asleep and breathing softly. She has more color
in her cheeks than usual, and looks, oh so sweet. If Mr.
Holmwood fell in love with her seeing her only in the draw-
ing room, I wonder what he would say if he saw her now. Some
of the `New Women' writers will some day start an idea that
men and women should be allowed to see each other asleep be-
fore proposing or accepting. But I suppose the `New Woman'
won't condescend in future to accept. She will do the pro-
posing herself. And a nice job she will make of it too!
There's some consolation in that. I am so happy tonight,
because dear Lucy seems better. I really believe she has
turned the corner, and that we are over her troubles with
dreaming. I should be quite happy if I only knew if Jona-
than. . .God bless and keep him.


11 August.--Diary again. No sleep now, so I may as well
write. I am too agitated to sleep. We have had such an ad-
venture, such an agonizing experience. I fell asleep as soon
as I had closed my diary. . . Suddenly I became broad awake,
and sat up, with a horrible sense of fear upon me, and of
some feeling of emptiness around me. The room was dark, so I
could not see Lucy's bed. I stole across and felt for her.
The bed was empty. I lit a match and found that she was not
in the room. The door was shut, but not locked, as I had
left it. I feared to wake her mother, who has been more than
usually ill lately, so threw on some clothes and got ready to
look for her. As I was leaving the room it struck me that
the clothes she wore might give me some clue to her dreaming
intention. Dressing-gown would mean house, dress outside.
Dressing-gown and dress were both in their places. "Thank
God," I said to myself, "she cannot be far, as she is only
in her nightdress."

I ran downstairs and looked in the sitting room. Not
there! Then I looked in all the other rooms of the house,
with an ever-growing fear chilling my heart. Finally, I
came to the hall door and found it open. It was not wide
open, but the catch of the lock had not caught. The people
of the house are careful to lock the door every night, so I
feared that Lucy must have gone out as she was. There was no
time to think of what might happen. A vague over-mastering
fear obscured all details.

I took a big, heavy shawl and ran out. The clock was
striking one as I was in the Crescent, and there was not a
soul in sight. I ran along the North Terrace, but could see
no sign of the white figure which I expected. At the edge of
the West Cliff above the pier I looked across the harbour to
the East Cliff, in the hope or fear, I don't know which, of
seeing Lucy in our favorite seat.

There was a bright full moon, with heavy black, driving
clouds, which threw the whole scene into a fleeting diorama
of light and shade as they sailed across. For a moment or
two I could see nothing, as the shadow of a cloud obscured
St. Mary's Church and all around it. Then as the cloud
passed I could see the ruins of the abbey coming into view,
and as the edge of a narrow band of light as sharp as a
sword-cut moved along, the church and churchyard became
gradually visible. Whatever my expectation was, it was not
disappointed, for there, on our favorite seat, the silver
light of the moon struck a half-reclining figure, snowy white.
The coming of the cloud was too quick for me to see much, for
shadow shut down on light almost immediately, but it seemed
to me as though something dark stood behind the seat where
the white figure shone, and bent over it. What it was, whe-
ther man or beast, I could not tell.

I did not wait to catch another glance, but flew down
the steep steps to the pier and along by the fish-market to
the bridge, which was the only way to reach the East Cliff.
The town seemed as dead, for not a soul did I see. I re-
joiced that it was so, for I wanted no witness of poor Lucy's
condition. The time and distance seemed endless, and my
knees trembled and my breath came laboured as I toiled up
the endless steps to the abbey. I must have gone fast, and
yet it seemed to me as if my feet were weighted with lead,
and as though every joint in my body were rusty.

When I got almost to the top I could see the seat and
the white figure, for I was now close enough to distinguish
it even through the spells of shadow. There was undoubtedly
something, long and black, bending over the half-reclining
white figure. I called in fright, "Lucy! Lucy!" and some-
thing raised a head, and from where I was I could see a
white face and red, gleaming eyes.

Lucy did not answer, and I ran on to the entrance of the
churchyard. As I entered, the church was between me and the
seat, and for a minute or so I lost sight of her. When I
came in view again the cloud had passed, and the moonlight
struck so brilliantly that I could see Lucy half reclining
with her head lying over the back of the seat. She was
quite alone, and there was not a sign of any living thing
about.

When I bent over her I could see that she was still
asleep. Her lips were parted, and she was breathing, not
softly as usual with her, but in long, heavy gasps, as though
striving to get her lungs full at every breath. As I came
close, she put up her hand in her sleep and pulled the collar
of her nightdress close around her, as though she felt the
cold. I flung the warm shawl over her, and drew the edges
tight around her neck, for I dreaded lest she should get
some deadly chill from the night air, unclad as she was. I
feared to wake her all at once, so, in order to have my hands
free to help her, I fastened the shawl at her throat with a
big safety pin. But I must have been clumsy in my anxiety
and pinched or pricked her with it, for by-and-by, when her
breathing became quieter, she put her hand to her throat
again and moaned. When I had her carefully wrapped up I put
my shoes on her feet, and then began very gently to wake her.

At first she did not respond, but gradually she became
more and more uneasy in her sleep, moaning and sighing occa-
sionally. At last, as time was passing fast, and for many
other reasons, I wished to get her home at once, I shook her
forcibly, till finally she opened her eyes and awoke. She
did not seem surprised to see me, as, of course, she did not
realize all at once where she was.

Lucy always wakes prettily, and even at such a time, when
her body must have been chilled with cold, and her mind some-
what appalled at waking unclad in a churchyard at night, she
did not lose her grace. She trembled a little, and clung to
me. When I told her to come at once with me home, she rose
without a word, with the obedience of a child. As we passed
along, the gravel hurt my feet, and Lucy noticed me wince.
She stopped and wanted to insist upon my taking my shoes, but
I would not. However, when we got to the pathway outside the
chruchyard, where there was a puddle of water, remaining from
the storm, I daubed my feet with mud, using each foot in turn
on the other, so that as we went home, no one, in case we
should meet any one, should notice my bare feet.

Fortune favoured us, and we got home without meeting a
soul. Once we saw a man, who seemed not quite sober, pass-
ing along a street in front of us. But we hid in a door till
he had disappeared up an opening such as there are here,
steep little closes, or `wynds', as they call them in Scot-
land. My heart beat so loud all the time sometimes I
thought I should faint. I was filled with anxiety about Lucy,
not only for her health, lest she should suffer from the ex-
posure, but for her reputation in case the story should get
wind. When we got in, and had washed our feet, and had said
a prayer of thankfulness together, I tucked her into bed.
Before falling asleep she asked, even implored, me not to
say a word to any one, even her mother, about her sleep-
walking adventure.

I hesitated at first, to promise, but on thinking of the
state of her mother's health, and how the knowledge of such
a thing would fret her, and think too, of how such a story
might become distorted, nay, infallibly would, in case it
should leak out, I thought it wiser to do so. I hope I did
right. I have locked the door, and the key is tied to my
wrist, so perhaps I shall not be again disturbed. Lucy is
sleeping soundly. The reflex of the dawn is high and far
over the sea. . .


Same day, noon.--All goes well. Lucy slept till I woke
her and seemed not to have even changed her side. The ad-
venture of the night does not seem to have harmed her, on
the contrary, it has benefited her, for she looks better
this morning than she has done for weeks. I was sorry to
notice that my clumsiness with the safety-pin hurt her.
Indeed, it might have been serious, for the skin of her
throat was pierced. I must have pinched up a piece of loose
skin and have transfixed it, for there are two little red
points like pin-pricks, and on the band of her nightdress
was a drop of blood. When I apologised and was concerned
about it, she laughed and petted me, and said she did not
even feel it. Fortunately it cannot leave a scar, as it is
so tiny.


Same day, night.--We passed a happy day. The air was
clear, and the sun bright, and there was a cool breeze. We
took our lunch to Mulgrave Woods, Mrs. Westenra driving by
the road and Lucy and I walking by the cliff-path and join-
ing her at the gate. I felt a little sad myself, for I
could not but feel how absolutely happy it would have been
had Jonathan been with me. But there! I must only be
patient. In the evening we strolled in the Casino Terrace,
and heard some good music by Spohr and Mackenzie, and went
to bed early. Lucy seems more restful than she has been for
some time, and fell asleep at once. I shall lock the door
and secure the key the same as before, though I do not expect
any trouble tonight.


12 August.--My expectations were wrong, for twice dur-
ing the night I was wakened by Lucy trying to get out. She
seemed, even in her sleep, to be a little impatient at find-
ing the door shut, and went back to bed under a sort of
protest. I woke with the dawn, and heard the birds chirp-
ing outside of the window. Lucy woke, too, and I was glad
to see, was even better than on the previous morning. All
her old gaiety of manner seemed to have come back, and she
came and snuggled in beside me and told me all about Arthur.
I told her how anxious I was about Jonathan, and then she
tried to comfort me. Well, she succeeded somewhat, for,
though sympathy can't alter facts, it can make them more
bearable.


13 August.--Another quiet day, and to bed with the key
on my wrist as before. Again I awoke in the night, and
found Lucy sitting up in bed, still asleep, pointing to the
window. I got up quietly, and pulling aside the blind,
looked out. It was brilliant moonlight, and the soft effect
of the light over the sea and sky, merged together in one
great silent mystery, was beautiful beyond words. Between me
and the moonlight flitted a great bat, coming and going in
great whirling circles. Once or twice it came quite close,
but was, I suppose, frightened at seeing me, and flitted away
across the harbour towards the abbey. When I came back from
the window Lucy had lain down again, and was sleeping peace-
fully. She did not stir again all night.


14 August.--On the East Cliff, reading and writing all
day. Lucy seems to have become as much in love with the spot
as I am, and it is hard to get her away from it when it is
time to come home for lunch or tea or dinner. This after-
noon she made a funny remark. We were coming home for dinner,
and had come to the top of the steps up from the West Pier
and stopped to look at the view, as we generally do. The
setting sun, low down in the sky, was just dropping behind
Kettleness. The red light was thrown over on the East Cliff
and the old abbey, and seemed to bathe everything in a
beautiful rosy glow. We were silent for a while, and
suddenly Lucy murmured as if to herself. . .

"His red eyes again! They are just the same." It was
such an odd expression, coming apropos of nothing, that it
quite startled me. I slewed round a little, so as to see
Lucy well without seeming to stare at her, and saw that she
was in a half dreamy state, with an odd look on her face
that I could not quite make out, so I said nothing, but
followed her eyes. She appeared to be looking over at our
own seat, whereon was a dark figure seated alone. I was
quite a little startled myself, for it seemed for an instant
as if the stranger had great eyes like burning flames, but
a second look dispelled the illusion. The red sunlight was
shining on the windows of St. Mary's Church behind our seat,
and as the sun dipped there was just sufficient change in
the refraction and reflection to make it appear as if the
light moved. I called Lucy's attention to the peculiar
effect, and she became herself with a start, but she looked
sad all the same. It may have been that she was thinking
of that terrible night up there. We never refer to it, so
I said nothing, and we went home to dinner. Lucy had a head-
ache and went early to bed. I saw her asleep, and went out
for a little stroll myself.

I walked along the cliffs to the westward, and was full
of sweet sadness, for I was thinking of Jonathan. When coming
home, it was then bright moonlight, so bright that, though
the front of our part of the Crescent was in shadow, every-
thing could be well seen, I threw a glance up at our window,
and saw Lucy's head leaning out. I opened my handkerchief
and waved it. She did not notice or make any movement what-
ever. Just then, the moonlight crept round an angle of the
building, and the light fell on the window. There distinctly
was Lucy with her head lying up against the side of the win-
dow sill and her eyes shut. She was fast asleep, and by her,
seated on the window sill, was something that looked like a
good-sized bird. I was afraid she might get a chill, so I
ran upstairs, but as I came into the room she was moving back
to her bed, fast asleep, and breathing heavily. She was hold-
ing her hand to her throat, as though to protect if from the
cold.

I did not wake her, but tucked her up warmly. I have
taken care that the door is locked and the window securely
fastened.

She looks so sweet as she sleeps, but she is paler than
is her wont, and there is a drawn, haggard look under her
eyes which I do not like. I fear she is fretting about some-
thing. I wish I could find out what it is.


15 August.--Rose later than usual. Lucy was languid and
tired, and slept on after we had been called. We had a happy
surprise at breakfast. Arthur's father is better, and wants
the marriage to come off soon. Lucy is full of quiet joy,
and her mother is glad and sorry at once. Later on in the day
she told me the cause. She is grieved to lose Lucy as her
very own, but she is rejoiced that she is soon to have some
one to protect her. Poor dear, sweet lady! She confided to
me that she has got her death warrant. She has not told Lucy,
and made me promise secrecy. Her doctor told her that within
a few months, at most, she must die, for her heart is weak-
ening. At any time, even now, a sudden shock would be almost
sure to kill her.  Ah, we were wise to keep from her the affair
of the dreadful night of Lucy's sleep-walking.


17 August.--No diary for two whole days. I have not
had the heart to write. Some sort of shadowy pall seems to
be coming over our happiness. No news from Jonathan, and
Lucy seems to be growing weaker, whilst her mother's hours
are numbering to a close. I do not understand Lucy's fading
away as she is doing. She eats well and sleeps well, and
enjoys the fresh air, but all the time the roses in her
cheeks are fading, and she gets weaker and more languid day
by day. At night I hear her gasping as if for air.

I keep the key of our door always fastened to my wrist
at night, but she gets up and walks about the room, and sits
at the open window. Last night I found her leaning out when
I woke up, and when I tried to wake her I could not.

She was in a faint. When I managed to restore her, she
was weak as water, and cried silently between long, painful
struggles for breath. When I asked her how she came to be
at the window she shook her head and turned away.

I trust her feeling ill may not be from that unlucky
prick of the safety-pin. I looked at her throat just now as
she lay asleep, and the tiny wounds seem not to have healed.
They are still open, and, if anything, larger than before,
and the edges of them are faintly white. They are like little
white dots with red centres. Unless they heal within a day
or two, I shall insist on the doctor seeing about them.


LETTER, SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON, SOLICITORS
WHITBY, TO MESSRS. CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON.

17 August

"Dear Sirs, --

"Herewith please receive invoice of goods sent by Great
Northern Railway. Same are to be delivered at Carfax, near
Purfleet, immediately on receipt at goods station King's
Cross. The house is at present empty, but enclosed please
find keys, all of which are labelled.

"You will please deposit the boxes, fifty in number,
which form the consignment, in the partially ruined building
forming part of the house and marked `A' on rough diagrams
enclosed. Your agent will easily recognize the locality, as
it is the ancient chapel of the mansion. The goods leave by
the train at 9:30 tonight, and will be due at King's Cross
at 4:30 tomorrow afternoon. As our client wishes the deliv-
ery made as soon as possible, we shall be obliged by your
having teams ready at King's Cross at the time named and
forthwith conveying the goods to destination. In order to
obviate any delays possible through any routine requirements
as to payment in your departments, we enclose cheque herewith
for ten pounds, receipt of which please acknowledge. Should
the charge be less than this amount, you can return balance,
if greater, we shall at once send cheque for difference on
hearing from you. You are to leave the keys on coming away
in the main hall of the house, where the proprietor may get
them on his entering the house by means of his duplicate key.

"Pray do not take us as exceeding the bounds of busi-
ness courtesy in pressing you in all ways to use the utmost
expedition.

"We are, dear Sirs,
"Faithfully yours,
"SAMUEL F. BILLINGTON & SON"


LETTER, MESSRS. CARTER, PATERSON & CO., LONDON,
TO MESSRS. BILLINGTON & SON, WHITBY.

21 August.

"Dear Sirs,--

"We beg to acknowledge 10 pounds received and to return
cheque of 1 pound, 17s, 9d, amount of overplus, as shown in
receipted account herewith. Goods are delivered in exact
accordance with instructions, and keys left in parcel in
main hall, as directed.

"We are, dear Sirs,
"Yours respectfully,
"Pro CARTER, PATERSON & CO."


MINA MURRAY'S JOURNAL.


18 August.--I am happy today, and write sitting on the
seat in the churchyard. Lucy is ever so much better. Last
night she slept well all night, and did not disturb me once.

The roses seem coming back already to her cheeks, though
she is still sadly pale and wan-looking. If she were in any
way anemic I could understand it, but she is not. She is in
gay spirits and full of life and cheerfulness.  All the morbid
reticence seems to have passed from her, and she has just
reminded me, as if I needed any reminding, of that night, and
that it was here, on this very seat, I found her asleep.

As she told me she tapped playfully with the heel of
her boot on the stone slab and said,

"My poor little feet didn't make much noise then! I
daresay poor old Mr. Swales would have told me that it was
because I didn't want to wake up Geordie."

As she was in such a communicative humour, I asked her
if she had dreamed at all that night.

Before she answered, that sweet, puckered look came into
her forehead, which Arthur, I call him Arthur from her habit,
says he loves, and indeed, I don't wonder that he does. Then
she went on in a half-dreaming kind of way, as if trying to
recall it to herself.

"I didn't quite dream, but it all seemed to be real. I
only wanted to be here in this spot. I don't know why, for I
was afraid of something, I don't know what. I remember,
though I suppose I was asleep, passing through the streets
and over the bridge. A fish leaped as I went by, and I lean-
ed over to look at it, and I heard a lot of dogs howling. The
whole town seemed as if it must be full of dogs all howling
at once, as I went up the steps. Then I had a vague memory
of something long and dark with red eyes, just as we saw in
the sunset, and something very sweet and very bitter all
around me at once. And then I seemed sinking into deep green
water, and there was a singing in my ears, as I have heard
there is to drowning men, and then everything seemed passing
away from me. My soul seemed to go out from my body and
float about the air. I seem to remember that once the West
Lighthouse was right under me, and then there was a sort of
agonizing feeling, as if I were in an earthquake, and I came
back and found you shaking my body. I saw you do it before
I felt you."

Then she began to laugh. It seemed a little uncanny to
me, and I listened to her breathlessly. I did not quite like
it, and thought it better not to keep her mind on the subject,
so we drifted on to another subject, and Lucy was like her
old self again. When we got home the fresh breeze had braced
her up, and her pale cheeks were really more rosy. Her mother
rejoiced when she saw her, and we all spent a very happy
evening together.


19 August.--Joy, joy, joy! Although not all joy. At
last, news of Jonathan. The dear fellow has been ill, that
is why he did not write. I am not afraid to think it or to
say it, now that I know. Mr. Hawkins sent me on the letter,
and wrote himself, oh so kindly. I am to leave in the morn-
ing and go over to Jonathan, and to help to nurse him if
necessary, and to bring him home. Mr. Hawkins says it would
not be a bad thing if we were to be married out there. I
have cried over the good Sister's letter till I can feel it
wet against my bosom, where it lies. It is of Jonathan, and
must be near my heart, for he is in my heart. My journey is
all mapped out, and my luggage ready. I am only taking one
change of dress. Lucy will bring my trunk to London and keep
it till I send for it, for it may be that. . .I must write
no more. I must keep it to say to Jonathan, my husband. The
letter that he has seen and touched must comfort me till we
meet.

LETTER, SISTER AGATHA, HOSPITAL OF ST. JOSEPH AND STE. MARY
BUDA-PESTH, TO MISS WILLHELMINA MURRAY

12 August,

"Dear Madam.

"I write by desire of Mr. Jonathan Harker, who is him-
self not strong enough to write, though progressing well,
thanks to God and St. Joseph and Ste. Mary. He has been
under our care for nearly six weeks, suffering from a vio-
lent brain fever. He wishes me to convey his love, and to
say that by this post I write for him to Mr. Peter Hawkins,
Exeter, to say, with his dutiful respects, that he is sorry
for his delay, and that all of his work is completed. He will
require some few weeks' rest in our sanatorium in the hills,
but will then return. He wishes me to say that he has not
sufficient money with him, and that he would like to pay for
his staying here, so that others who need shall not be want-
ing for belp.

Believe me,

Yours, with sympathy

and all blessings.
Sister Agatha"


"P.S.--My patient being asleep, I open this to let you
know something more. He has told me all about you, and that
you are shortly to be his wife. All blessings to you both!
He has had some fearful shock, so says our doctor, and in his
delirium his ravings have been dreadful, of wolves and poison
and blood, of ghosts and demons, and I fear to say of what.
Be careful of him always that there may be nothing to excite
him of this kind for a long time to come. The traces of such
an illness as his do not lightly die away. We should have
written long ago, but we knew nothing of his friends, and
there was nothing on him, nothing that anyone could under-
stand. He came in the train from Klausenburg, and the guard
was told by the station master there that he rushed into the
station shouting for a ticket for home. Seeing from his
violent demeanor that he was English, they gave him a ticket
for the furthest station on the way thither that the train
reached.

"Be assured that he is well cared for. He has won all
hearts by his sweetness and gentleness. He is truly getting
on well, and I have no doubt will in a few weeks be all him-
self. But be careful of him for safety's sake. There are, I
pray God and St. Joseph and Ste. Mary, many, many, happy years
for you both."

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


19 Agust.--Strange and sudden change in Renfield last
night. About eight o'clock he began to get excited and sniff
about as a dog does when setting. The attendant was struck
by his manner, and knowing my interest in him, encouraged
him to talk. He is usually respectful to the attendant and
at times servile, but tonight, the man tells me, he was
quite haughty. Would not condescend to talk with him at all.

All he would say was, "I don't want to talk to you. You
don't count now. The master is at hand."

The attendant thinks it is some sudden form of relig-
ious mania which has seized him. If so, we must look out for
squalls, for a strong man with homicidal and religious mania
at once might be dangerous. The combination is a dreadful one.

At Nine o'clock I visited him myself. His attitude to me
was the same as that to the attendant. In his sublime self-
feeling the difference between myself and the attendant
seemed to him as nothing. It looks like religious mania, and
he will soon think that he himself is God.

These infinitesimal distinctions between man and man
are too paltry for an Omnipotent Being. How these madmen give
themselves away! The real God taketh heed lest a sparrow
fall. But the God created from human vanity sees no differ-
ence between an eagle and a sparrow. Oh, if men only knew!

For half an hour or more Renfield kept getting excited
in greater and greater degree. I did not pretend to be watch-
ing him, but I kept strict observation all the same. All at
once that shifty look came into his eyes which we always see
when a madman has seized an idea, and with it the shifty
movement of the head and back which asylum attendants come
to know so well. He became quite quiet, and went and sat on
the edge of his bed resignedly, and looked into space with
lack-luster eyes.

I thought I would find out if his apathy were real or
only assumed, and tried to lead him to talk of his pets, a
theme which had never failed to excite his attention.

At first he made no reply, but at length said testily,
"Bother them all! I don't care a pin about them."

"What" I said. "You don't mean to tell me you don't
care about spiders?" (Spiders at present are his hobby and
the notebook is filling up with columns of small figures.)

To this he answered enigmatically, "The Bride maidens
rejoice the eyes that wait the coming of the bride. But
when the bride draweth nigh, then the maidens shine not to
the eyes that are filled."

He would not explain himself, but remained obstinately
seated on his bed all the time I remained with him.

I am weary tonight and low in spirits. I cannot but
think of Lucy, and how different things might have been. If
I don't sleep at once, chloral, the modern Morpheus! I must
be careful not to let it grow into a habit. No, I shall take
none tonight! I have thought of Lucy, and I shall not dis-
honour her by mixing the two. If need by, tonight shall be
sleepless.


Later.--Glad I made the resolution, gladder that I kept
to it. I had lain tossing about, and had heard the clock
strike only twice, when the night watchman came to me, sent
up from the ward, to say that Renfield had escaped. I threw
on my clothes and ran down at once. My patient is too dan-
gerous a person to be roaming about. Those ideas of his
might work out dangerously with strangers.

The attendant was waiting for me. He said he had seen
him not ten minutes before, seemingly asleep in his bed, when
he had looked through the observation trap in the door. His
attention was called by the sound of the window being wrench-
ed out. He ran back and saw his feet disappear through the
window, and had at once sent up for me. He was only in his
night gear, and cannot be far off.

The attendant thought it would be more useful to watch
where he should go than to follow him, as he might lose sight
of him whilst getting out of the building by the door. He is
a bulky man, and couldn't get through the window.

I am thin, so, with his aid, I got out, but feet fore-
most, and as we were only a few feet above ground landed
unhurt.

The attendant told me the patient had gone to the left,
and had taken a straight line, so I ran as quickly as I
could. As I got through the belt of trees I saw a white
figure scale the high wall which separates our grounds from
those of the deserted house.

I ran back at once, told the watchman to get three or
four men immediately and follow me into the grounds of Car-
fax, in case our friend might be dangerous. I got a ladder
myself, and crossing the wall, dropped down on the other side.
I could see Renfield's figure just disappearing behind the
angle of the house, so I ran after him. On the far side of
the house I found him pressed close against the old iron-
bound oak door of the chapel.

He was talking, apparently to some one, but I was afraid
to go near enough to hear what he was saying, les t I might
frighten him, and he should run off.

Chasing an errant swarm of bees is nothing to following
a naked lunatic, when the fit of escaping is upon him! After
a few minutes, however, I could see that he did not take note
of anything around him, and so ventured to draw nearer to
him, the more so as my men had now crossed the wall and were
closing him in. I heard him say. . .

"I am here to do your bidding, Master. I am your slave,
and you will reward me, for I shall be faithful. I have
worshipped you long and afar off. Now that you are near, I
await your commands, and you will not pass me by, will you,
dear Master, in your distribution of good things?"

He is a selfish old beggar anyhow. He thinks of the
loaves and fishes even when he believes his is in a real
Presence. His manias make a startling combination. When we
closed in on him he fought like a tiger. He is immensely
strong, for he was more like a wild beast than a man.

I never saw a lunatic in such a paroxysm of rage before,
and I hope I shall not again. It is a mercy that we have
found out his strength and his danger in good time. With
strength and determination like his, he might have done wild
work before he was caged.

He is safe now, at any rate. Jack Sheppard himself
couldn't get free from the strait waistcoat that keeps him
restrained, and he's chained to the wall in the padded room.

His cries are at times awful, but the silences that
follow are more deadly still, for he means murder in every
turn and movement.

Just now he spoke coherent words for the first time. "I
shall be patient, Master. It is coming, coming, coming!"

So I took the hint, and came too. I was too excited to
sleep, but this diary has quieted me, and I feel I shall get
some sleep tonight.




CHAPTER 9


LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA


Buda-Pesth, 24 August.

"My dearest Lucy,

"I know you will be anxious to hear all that has happ-
ened since we parted at the railway station at Whitby.

"Well, my dear, I got to Hull all right, and caught
the boat to Hamburg, and then the train on here. I feel
that I can hardly recall anything of the journey, except
that I knew I was coming to Jonathan, and that as I should
have to do some nursing, I had better get all the sleep I
could. I found my dear one, oh, so thin and pale and weak-
looking. All the resolution has gone out of his dear eyes,
and that quiet dignity which I told you was in his face has
vanished. He is only a wreck of himself, and he does not
remember anything that has happened to him for a long time
past. At least, he wants me to believe so, and I shall
never ask.

"He has had some terrible shock, and I fear it might
tax his poor brain if he were to try to recall it. Sister
Agatha, who is a good creature and a born nurse, tells me
that he wanted her to tell me what they were, but she would
only cross herself, and say she would never tell. That the
ravings of the sick were the secrets of God, and that if a
nurse through her vocation should hear them, she should re-
spect her trust..

"She is a sweet, good soul, and the next day, when she
saw I was troubled, she opened up the subject my poor dear
raved about, added, `I can tell you this much, my dear.
That it was not about anything which he has done wrong him-
self, and you, as his wife to be, have no cause to be con-
cerned. He has not forgotten you or what he owes to you.
His fear was of great and terrible things, which no mortal
can treat of.'

"I do believe the dear soul thought I might be jealous
lest my poor dear should have fallen in love with any other
girl. The idea of my being jealous about Jonathan! And yet,
my dear, let me whisper, I felt a thrill of joy through me
when I knew that no other woman was a cause for trouble. I
am now sitting by his bedside, where I can see his face while
he sleeps. He is waking!

"When he woke he asked me for his coat, as he wanted to
get something from the pocket. I asked Sister Agatha, and
she brought all his things. I saw amongst them was his note-
book, and was was going to ask him to let me look at it, for
I knew that I might find some clue to his trouble, but I sup-
pose he must have seen my wish in my eyes, for he sent me
over to the window, saying he wanted to be quite alone for a
moment.

"Then he called me back, and he said to me very solemnly,
`Wilhelmina', I knew then that he was in deadly earnest, for
he has never called me by that name since he asked me to
marry him, `You know, dear, my ideas of the trust between
husband and wife. There should be no secret, no concealment.
I have had a great shock, and when I try to think of what it
is I feel my head spin round, and I do not know if it was
real of the dreaming of a madman. You know I had brain fever,
and that is to be mad. The secret is here, and I do not want
to know it. I want to take up my life here, with our marri-
age.' For, my dear, we had decided to be married as soon as
the formalities are complete. `Are you willing, Wilhelmina,
to share my ignorance? Here is the book. Take it and keep
it, read it if you will, but never let me know unless, indeed,
some solemn duty should come upon me to go back to the
bitter hours, asleep or awake, sane or mad, recorded here.'
He fell back exhausted, and I put the book under his pillow,
and kissed him. have asked Sister Agatha to beg the Super-
ior to let our wedding be this afternoon, and am waiting her
reply. . ."


"She has come and told me that the Chaplain of the En-
glish mission church has been sent for. We are to be married
in an hour, or as soon after as Jonathan awakes."


"Lucy, the time has come and gone. I feel very solemn,
but very, very happy. Jonathan woke a little after the hour,
and all was ready, and he sat up in bed, propped up with
pillows. He answered his `I will' firmly and strong. I
could hardly speak. My heart was so full that even those
words seemed to choke me.

"The dear sisters were so kind. Please, God, I shall
never, never forget them, nor the grave and sweet respon-
sibilities I have taken upon me. I must tell you of my
wedding present. When the chaplain and the sisters had left
me alone with my husband--oh, Lucy, it is the first time I
have written the words `my husband'--left me alone with my
husband, I took the book from under his pillow, and wrapped
it up in white paper, and tied it with a little bit of pale
blue ribbon which was round my neck, and sealed it over the
knot with sealing wax, and for my seal I used my wedding
ring. Then I kissed it and showed it to my husband, and told
him that I would keep it so, and then it would be an outward
and visible sign for us all our lives that we trusted each
other, that I would never open it unless it were for his own
dear sake or for the sake of some stern duty. Then he took
my hand in his, and oh, Lucy, it was the first time he took
his wifes' hand, and said that it was the dearest thing in
all the wide world, and that he would go through all the past
again to win it, if need be. The poor dear meant to have said
a part of the past, but he cannot think of time yet, and I
shall not wonder if at first he mixes up not only the month,
but the year.

"Well, my dear, could I say? I could only tell him that
I was the happiest woman in all the wide world, and that I
had nothing to give him except myself, my life, and my trust,
and that with these went my love and duty for all the days
of my life. And, my dear, when he kissed me, and drew me to
him with his poor weak hands, it was like a solemn pledge
between us.


"Lucy dear, do you know why I tell you all this? It is
not only because it is all sweet to me, but because you have
been, and are, very dear to me. It was my privilege to be
your friend and guide when you came from the schoolroom to
prepare for the world of life. I want you to see now, and
with the eyes of a very happy wife, whither duty has led me,
so that in your own married life you too may be all happy,
as I am. My dear, please Almighty God, your life may be all
it promises, a long day of sunshine, with no harsh wind, no
forgetting duty, no distrust. I must not wish you no pain,
for that can never be, but I do hope you will be always as
happy as I am now. Goodbye, my dear. I shall post this at
once, and perhaps, write you very soon again. I must stop,
for Jonathan is waking. I must attend my husband!

"Your ever-loving
"Mina Harker."

LETTER, LUCY WESTENRA TO MINA HARKER.

Whitby, 30 August.

"My dearest Mina,

"Oceans of love and millions of kisses, and may you
soon be in your own home with your husband. I wish you were
coming home soon enough to stay with us here. The strong air
would soon restore Jonathan. It has quite restored me. I
have an appetite like a cormorant, am full of life, and sleep
well. You will be glad to know that I have quite given up
walking in my sleep. I think I have not stirred out of my
bed for a week, that is when I once got into it at night.
Arthur says I am getting fat. By the way, I forgot to tell
you that Arthur is here. We have such walks and drives, and
rides, and rowing, and tennis, and fishing together, and I
love him more than ever. He tells me that he loves me more,
but I doubt that, for at first he told me that he couldn't
love me more than he did then. But this is nonsense. There
he is, calling to me. So no more just at present from your
loving,

"Lucy.


"P.S.--Mother sends her love. She seems better, poor dear.

"P.P.S.--We are to be married on 28 September."

DR. SEWARDS DIARY


20 August.--The case of Renfield grows even more in-
teresting. He has now so far quieted that there are spells
of cessation from his passion. For the first week after his
attack he was perpetually violent. Then one night, just as
the moon rose, he grew quiet, and kept murmuring to himself.
"Now I can wait. Now I can wait."

The attendant came to tell me, so I ran down at once to
have a look at him. He was still in the strait waistcoat
and in the padded room, but the suffused look had gone from
his face, and his eyes had something of their old pleading.
I might almost say, cringing, softness. I was satisfied
with his present condition, and directed him to be relieved.
The attendants hesitated, but finally carried out my wishes
without protest.

It was a strange thing that the patient had humour
enough to see their distrust, for, coming close to me, he
said in a whisper, all the while looking furtively at them,
"They think I could hurt you! Fancy me hurting you! The
fools!"

It was soothing, somehow, to the feelings to find my-
self disassociated even in the mind of this poor madman from
the others, but all the same I do not follow his thought. Am
I to take it that I have anything in common with him, so that
we are, as it were, to stand together. Or has he to gain from
me some good so stupendous that my well being is needful to
Him? I must find out later on. Tonight he will not speak.
Even the offer of a kitten or even a full-grown cat will not
tempt him.

He will only say, "I don't take any stock in cats. I
have more to think of now, and I can wait. I can wait."

After a while I left him. The attendant tells me that
he was quiet until just before dawn, and that then he began
to get uneasy, and at length violent, until at last he fell
into a paroxysm which exhausted him so that he swooned into
a sort of coma.


. . . Three nights has the same thing happened, violent
all day then quiet from moonrise to sunrise. I wish I could
get some clue to the cause. It would almost seem as if there
was some influence which came and went. Happy thought! We
shall tonight play sane wits against mad ones. He escaped
before without our help. Tonight he shall escape with it.
We shall give him a chance, and have the men ready to follow
in case they are required.


23 August.--"The expected always happens." How well
Disraeli knew life. Our bird when he found the cage open
would not fly, so all our subtle arrangements were for nought.
At any rate, we have proved one thing, that the spells of
quietness last a reasonable time. We shall in future be able
to ease his bonds for a few hours each day. I have given
orders to the night attendant merely to shut him in the pad-
ded room, when once he is quiet, until the hour before sun-
rise. The poor soul's body will enjoy the relief even if his
mind cannot appreciate it. Hark! The unexpected again! I
am called. The patient has once more escaped.


Later.--Another night adventure. Renfield artfully wait-
ed until the attendant was entering the room to inspect.
Then he dashed out past him and flew down the passage. I
sent word for the attendants to follow. Again he went into
the grounds of the deserted house, and we found him in the
same place, pressed against the old chapel door. When he saw
me he became furious, and had not the attendants seized him
in time, he would have tried to kill me. As we sere holding
him a strange thing happened. He suddenly redoubled his eff-
orts, and then as suddenly grew calm. I looked round instinc-
tively, but could see nothing. Then I caught the patient's
eye and followed it, but could trace nothing as it looked
into the moonlight sky, except a big bat, which was flapping
its silent and ghostly way to the west. Bats usually wheel
about, but this one seemed to go straight on, as if it knew
where it was bound for or had some intention of its own.

The patient grew calmer every instant, and presently
said, "You needn't tie me. I shall go quietly!" Without
trouble, we came back to the house. I feel there is some-
thing ominous in his calm, and shall not forget this night.



LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY


Hillingham, 24 August.--I must imitate Mina, and keep
writing things down. Then we can have long talks when we do
meet. I wonder when it will be. I wish she were with me
again, for I feel so unhappy. Last night I seemed to be
dreaming again just as I was at Whitby. Perhaps it is the
change of air, or getting home again. It is all dark and
horrid to me, for I can remember nothing. But I am full of
vague fear, and I feel so weak and worn out. When Arthur
came to lunch he looked quite grieved when he saw me, and I
hadn't the spirit to try to be cheerful. I wonder if I could
sleep in mother's room tonight. I shall make an excuse to try.


25 August.--Another bad night. Mother did not seem to
take to my proposal. She seems not too well herself, and
doubtless she fears to worry me. I tried to keep awake, and
succeeded for a while, but when the clock struck twelve it
waked me from a doze, so I must have been falling asleep.
There was a sort of scratching or flapping at the window,
but I did not mind it, and as I remember no more, I suppose
I must have fallen asleep. More bad dreams. I wish I could
remember them. This morning I am horribly weak. My face is
ghastly pale, and my throat pains me. It must be something
wrong with my lungs, for I don't seem to be getting air
enough. I shall try to cheer up when Arthur comes, or else
I know he will be miserable to see me so.



LETTER, ARTHUR TO DR. SEWARD

"Albemarle Hotel, 31 August
"My dear Jack,

"I want you to do me a favour. Lucy is ill, that is she
has no special disease, but she looks awful, and is getting
worse every day. I have asked her if there is any cause, I
not dare to ask her mother, for to disturb the poor lady's
mind about her daughter in her present state of health would
be fatal. Mrs. Westenra has confided to me that her doom is
spoken, disease of the heart, though poor Lucy does not know
it yet. I am sure that there is something preying on my dear
girl's mind. I am almost distracted when I think of her. To
look at her gives me a pang. I told her I should ask you to
see her, and though she demurred at first, I know why, old
fellow, she finally consented. It will be a painful task for
you, I know, old friend, but it is for her sake, and I must
not hesitate to ask, or you to act. You are to come to lunch
at Hillingham tomorrow, two o'clock, so as not to arouse any
suspicion in Mrs. Westenra, and after lunch Lucy will take an
opportunity of being alone with you. I am filled with
anxiety, and want to consult with you alone as soon as I can
after you have seen her. Do not fail!

"Arthur."


TELEGRAM, ARTHUR HOLMWOOD TO SEWARD


1 September


"Am summoned to see my father, who is worse. Am writing.
Write me fully by tonight's post to Ring. Wire me if neces-
sary."

LETTER FROM DR. SEWARD TO ARTHUR HOLMWOOD


2 September

"My dear old fellow,

"With regard to Miss Westenra's health I hasten to let
you know at once that in my opinion there is not any funct-
al disturbance or any malady that I know of. At the same
time, I am not by any means satisfied with her appearance.
She is woefully different from what she was when I saw her
last. Of course you must bear in mind that I did not have
full opportunity of examination such as I should wish. Our
very friendship makes a little difficulty which not even
medical science or custom can bridge over. I had better tell
you exactly what happened, leaving you to draw, in a measure,
your own conclusions. I shall then say what I have done and
propose doing.

"I found Miss Westenra in seemingly gay spirits. Her
mother was present, and in a few seconds I made up my mind
that she was trying all she knew to mislead her mother and
prevent her from being anxious. I have no doubt she guesses,
if she does not know, what need of caution there is.

"We lunched alone, and as we all exerted ourselves to
be cheerful, we got, as some kind of reward for our labours,
some real cheerfulness amongst us. Then Mrs. Westenra went
to lie down, and Lucy was left with me. We went into her
boudoir, and till we got there her gaiety remained, for the
servants were coming and going.

"As soon as the door was closed, however, the mask fell
from her face, and she sank down into a chair with a great
sigh, and hid her eyes with her hand. When I saw that her
high spirits had failed, I at once took advantage of her re-
action to make a diagnosis.

"She said to me very sweetly, `I cannot tell you how I
loathe talking about myself.' I reminded her that a doctor's
confidence was sacred, but that you were grievously anxious
about her. She caught on to my meaning at once, and settled
that matter in a word. `Tell Arthur everything you choose. I
do not care for myself, but for him!' So I am quite free.

"I could easily see that she was somewhat bloodless, but
I could not see the usual anemic signs, and by the chance , I
was able to test the actual quality of her blood, for in
opening a window which was stiff a cord gave way, and she cut
her hand slightly with broken glass. It was a slight matter
in itself, but it gave me an evident chance, and I secured
a few drops of the blood and have analysed them.

"The qualitative analysis give a quite normal condition,
and shows, I should infer, in itself a vigorous state of
health. In other physical matters I was quite satisfied that
there is no need for anxiety, but as there must be a cause
somewhere, I have come to the conclusion that it must be
something mental.

"She complains of difficulty breathing satisfactorily
at times, and of heavy, lethargic sleep, with dreams that
frighten her, but regarding which she can remember nothing.
She says that as a child, she used to walk in her sleep, and
that when in Whitby the habit came back, and that once she
walked out in the night and went to East Cliff, where Miss
Murray found her. But she assures me that of late the habit
has not returned.

"I am in doubt, and so have done the best thing I know
of. I have written to my old friend and master, Professor
Van Helsing, of Amsterdam, who knows as much about obscure
diseases as any one in the world. I have asked him to come
over, and as you told me that all things were to be at your
charge, I have mentioned to him who you are and your rela-
tions to Miss Westenra. This, my dear fellow, is in obed-
ience to your wishes, for I am only too proud and happy to
do anything I can for her.

"Van Helsing would, I know, do anything for me for a
personal reason, so no matter on what ground he comes, we
must accept his wishes. He is a seemingly arbitrary man,
this is because he knows what he is talking about better
than any one else. He is a philosopher and a metaphysician,
and one of the most advanced scientists of his day, and he
has, I believe, an absolutely open mind. This, with an iron
nerve, a temper of the ice-brook, and indomitable resolution,
self-command, and toleration exalted from virtues to bless-
ings, and the kindliest and truest heart that beats, these
form his equipment for the noble work that he is doing for
mankind, work both in theory and practice, for his views are
as wide as his all-embracing sympathy. I tell you these facts
that you may know why I have such confidence in him. I have
asked him to come at once. I shall see Miss Westenra tomorrow
again. She is to meet me at the Stores, so that I may not
alarm her mother by too early a repetition of my call.

"Yours always."

John Seward




LETTER, ABRAHAM VAN HELSING, MD, DPh, D. LiT, ETC, ETC,
TO DR. SEWARD


2 September.

"My good Friend,

"When I received your letter I am already coming to you.
By good fortune I can leave just at once, without wrong to
any of those who have trusted me. Were fortune other, then
it were bad for those who have trusted, for I come to my
friend when he call me to aid those he holds dear. Tell your
friend that when that time you suck from my wound so swiftly
the poison of the gangrene from that knife that our other
friend, too nervous, let slip, you did more for him when he
wants my aids and you call for them than all his great for-
tune could do. But it is pleasure added to do for him, your
friend, it is to you that I come. Have near at hand, and
please it so arrange that we may see the young lady not too
late on tomorrow, for it is likely that I may have to return
here that night. But if need be I shall come again in three
days, and stay longer if it must. Till then goodbye, my
friend John.

"Van Helsing."

LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD


3 September

"My dear Art,

"Van Helsing has come and gone. He came on with me to
Hillingham, and found that, by Lucy's discretion, her mother
was lunching out, so that we were alone with her.

"Van Helsing made a very careful examination of the
patient. He is to report to me, and I shall advise you, for
of course I was not present all the time. He is, I fear,
much concerned, but says he must think. When I told him of
our friendship and how you trust to me in the matter, he said,
`You must tell him all you think. Tell him him what I think,
if you can guess it, if you will. Nay, I am not jesting.
This is no jest, but life and death, perhaps more.' I asked
what he meant by that, for he was very serious. This was
when we had come back to town, and he was having a cup of tea
before starting on his return to Amsterdam. He would not give
me any further clue. You must not be angry with me, Art, be-
cause his very reticence means that all his brains are work-
ing for her good. He will speak plainly enough when the time
comes, be sure. So I told him I would simply write an account
of our visit, just as if I were doing a descriptive special
article for THE DAILY TELEGRAPH. He seemed not to notice, but
remarked that the smuts of London were not quite so bad as
they used to be when he was a student here. I am to get his
report tomorrow if he can possibly make it. In any case I
am to have a letter.

"Well, as to the visit, Lucy was more cheerful than on
the day I first saw her, and certainly looked better. She
had lost something of the ghastly look that so upset you, and
her breathing was normal. She was very sweet to the Professor
(as she always is), and tried to make him feel at ease, though
I could see the poor girl was making a hard struggle for it.

"I believe Van Helsing saw it, too, for I saw the quick
look under his bushy brows that I knew of old. Then he began
to chat of all things except ourselves and diseases and with
such an infinite geniality that I could see poor Lucy's pre-
tense of animation merge into reality. Then, without any
seeming change, he brought the conversation gently round to
his visit, and sauvely said,

"`My dear young miss, I have the so great pleasure be-
cause you are so much beloved. That is much, my dear, even
were there that which I do not see. They told me you were
down in the spirit, and that you were of a ghastly pale. To
them I say "Pouf!" ' And he snapped his fingers at me and
went on. `But you and I shall show them how wrong they are.
How can he', and he pointed at me with the same look and
gesture as that with which he pointed me out in his class,
on, or rather after, a particular occasion which he never
fails to remind me of, `know anything of a young ladies? He
has his madmen to play with, and to bring them back to happi-
ness, and to those that love them. It is much to do, and,
oh, but there are rewards in that we can bestow such happi-
ness.  But the young ladies! He has no wife nor daughter, and
the young do not tell themselves to the young, but to the
old, like me, who have known so many sorrows and the causes
of them. So, my dear, we will send him away to smoke the cig-
arette in the garden, whiles you and I have little talk all
to ourselves.' I took the hint, and strolled about, and pre-
sently the professor came to the window and called me in. He
looked grave, but said, ` I have made careful examination,
but there is no functional cause. With you I agree that there
has been much blood lost, it has been but is not. But the
conditions of her are in no way anemic. I have asked her to
send me her maid, that I may ask just one or two questions,
that so I may not chance to miss nothing. I know well what
she will say. And yet there is cause. There is always cause
for everything. I must go back home and think. You must
send me the telegram every day, and if there be cause I shall
come again. The disease, for not to be well is a disease,
interest me, and the sweet, young dear, she interest me too.
She charm me, and for her, if not for you or disease, I
come.'

"As I tell you, he would not say a word more, even when
we were alone. And so now, Art, you know all I know. I
shall keep stern watch. I trust your poor father is rallying.
It must be a terrible thing to you, my dear old fellow, to be
placed in such a position between two people who are both so
dear to you. I know your idea of duty to your father, and
you are right to stick to it. But if need be, I shall send
you word to come at once to Lucy, so do not be over-anxious
unless you hear from me."


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


4 September.--Zoophagous patient still keeps up our
interest in him. He had only one outburst and that was yes-
terday at an unusual time. Just before the stroke of noon
he began to grow restless. The attendant knew the symptoms,
and at once summoned aid. Fortunately the men came at a run,
and were just in time, for at the stroke of noon he became so
violent that it took all their strength to hold him. In about
five minutes, however, he began to get more quiet, and finally
sank into a sort of melancholy, in which state he has remain-
ed up to now. The attendant tells me that his screams whilst
in the paroxysm were really appalling. I found my hands full
when I got in, attending to some of the other patients who
were frightened by him. Indeed, I can quite understand the
effect, for the sounds disturbed even me, though I was some
distance away. It is now after the dinner hour of the asylum,
and as yet my patient sits in a corner brooding, with a dull,
sullen, woe-begone look in his face, which seems rather to
indicate than to show something directly. I cannot quite
understand it.


Later.--Another change in my patient. At five o'clock
I looked in on him, and found him seemingly as happy and
contented as he used to be. He was catching flies and eating
them, and was keeping note of his capture by making nailmarks
on the edge of the door between the ridges of padding. When
he saw me, he came over and apologized for his bad conduct,
and asked me in a very humble, cringing way to be led back
to his own room, and to have his notebook again. I thought it
well to humour him, so he is back in his room with the window
open. He has the sugar of his tea spread out on the window
sill, and is reaping quite a harvest of flies. He is not now
eating them, but putting them into a box, as of old, and is
already examining the corners of his room to find a spider. I
tried to get him to talk about the past few days, for any
clue to his thoughts would be of immense help to me, but he
would not rise. For a moment or two he looked very sad, and
said in a sort of far away voice, as though saying it rather
to himself than to me.

"All over! All over! He has deserted me. No hope for
me now unless I do it myself!" Then suddenly turning to me
in a resolute way, he said, "Doctor, won't you be very good to
me and let me have a little more sugar? I think it would be
very good for me."

"And the flies?" I said.

"Yes! The flies like it, too, and I like the flies,
therefore I like it."And there are people who know so little
as to think that madmen do not argue. I procured him a double
supply, and left him as happy a man as, I suppose, any in the
world. I wish I could fathom his mind.


Midnight.--Another change in him. I had been to see Miss
Westenra, whom I found much better, and had just returned,
and was standing at our own gate looking at the sunset, when
once more I heard him yelling.  As his room is on this side of
the house, I could hear it better than in the morning. It
was a shock to me to turn from the wonderful smoky beauty of
a sunset over London, with its lurid lights and inky shadows
and all the marvellous tints that come on foul clouds even
as on foul water, and to realize all the grim sternness of my
own cold stone building, with its wealth of breathing misery,
and my own desolate heart to endure it all. I reached him
just as the sun was going down, and from his window saw the
red disc sink. As it sank he became less and less frenzied,
and just as it dipped he slid from the hands that held him,
an inert mass, on the floor. It is wonderful, however, what
intellectual recuperative power lunatics have, for within a
few minutes he stood up quite calmly and looked around him.
I signalled to the attendants not to hold him, for I was
anxious to see what he would do. He went straight over to
the window and brushed out the crumbs of sugar. Then he
took his fly box, and emptied it outside, and threw away the
box. Then he shut the window, and crossing over, sat down on
his bed.  All this surprised me, so I asked him, "Are you going
to keep flies any more?"

"No," said he. "I am sick of all that rubbish!" He
certainly is a wonderfully interesting study. I wish I could
get some glimpse of his mind or of the cause of his sudden
passion. Stop. There may be a clue after all, if we can find
why today his paroxysms came on at high noon and at sunset.
Can it be that there is a malign influence of the sun at
periods which affects certain natures, as at times the moon
does others? We shall see.

TELEGRAM. SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM


"4 September.--Patient still better today."

TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM


"5 September.--Patient greatly improved. Good appetite,
sleeps naturally, good spirits, color coming back."

TELEGRAM, SEWARD, LONDON, TO VAN HELSING, AMSTERDAM


"6 September.--Terrible change for the worse. Come at
once. Do not lose an hour. I hold over telegram to Holm-
wood till have seen you."





CHAPTER 10


LETTER, DR. SEWARD TO HON. ARTHUR HOLMWOOD


6 September

"My dear Art,

"My news today is not so good. Lucy this morning had
gone back a bit. There is, however, one good thing which has
arisen from it. Mrs. Westenra was naturally anxious concern-
ing Lucy, and has consulted me professionally about her. I
took advantage of the opportunity, and told her that my old
master, Van Helsing, the great specialist, was coming to stay
with me, and that I would put her in his charge conjointly
with myself. So now we can come and go without alarming her
unduly, for a shock to her would mean sudden death, and this,
in Lucy's weak condition, might be disastrous to her. We are
hedged in with difficulties, all of us, my poor fellow, but,
please God, we shall come through them all right. If any need
I shall write, so that, if you do not hear from me, take it
for granted that I am simply waiting for news, In haste,

"Yours ever,"

John Seward



DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


7 September.--The first thing Van Helsing said to me
when we met at Liverpool Street was, "Have you said anything
to our young friend, to lover of her?"

"No," I said. "I waited till I had seen you, as I said
in my telegram. I wrote him a letter simply telling him that
you were coming, as Miss Westenra was not so well, and that I
should let him know if need be."

"Right, my friend," he said. "Quite right! Better he
not know as yet. Perhaps he will never know. I pray so, but
if it be needed, then he shall know all. And, my good friend
John, let me caution you. You deal with the madmen. All men
are mad in some way or the other, and inasmuch as you deal
discreetly with your madmen, so deal with God's madmen too,
the rest of the world. You tell not your madmen what you do
nor why you do it. You tell them not what you think. So
you shall keep knowledge in its place, where it may rest,
where it may gather its kind around it and breed. You and I
shall keep as yet what we know here, and here." He touched
me on the heart and on the forehead, and then touched him-
self the same way. "I have for myself thoughts at the pre-
sent. Later I shall unfold to you."

"Why not now?" I asked. "It may do some good. We may
arrive at some decision."He looked at me and said, "My friend
John, when the corn is grown, even before it has ripened,
while the milk of its mother earth is in him, and the sun-
shine has not yet begun to paint him with his gold, the hus-
bandman he pull the ear and rub him between his rough hands,
and blow away the green chaff, and say to you, 'Look! He's
good corn, he will make a good crop when the time comes.' "

I did not see the application and told him so. For
reply he reached over and took my ear in his hand and pulled
it playfully, as he used long ago to do at lectures, and said,
"The good husbandman tell you so then because he knows, but
not till then. But you do not find the good husbandman dig
up his planted corn to see if he grow. That is for the
children who play at husbandry, and not for those who take
it as of the work of their life. See you now, friend John?
I have sown my corn, and Nature has her work to do in making
it sprout, if he sprout at all, there's some promise, and I
wait till the ear begins to swell." He broke off, for he
evidently saw that I understood. Then he went on gravely,
"You were always a careful student, and your case book was
ever more full than the rest. And I trust that good habit
have not fail. Remember, my friend, that knowledge is
stronger than memory, and we should not trust the weaker.
Even if you have not kept the good practice, let me tell you
that this case of our dear miss is one that may be, mind, I
say may be, of such interest to us and others that all the
rest may not make him kick the beam, as your people say.
Take then good note of it. Nothing is too small. I counsel
you, put down in record even your doubts and surmises. Here-
after it may be of interest to you to see how true you guess.
We learn from failure, not from success!"

When I described Lucy's symptoms, the same as before,
but infinitely more marked, he looked very grave, but said
nothing. He took with him a bag in which were many instru-
ments and drugs, "the ghastly paraphernalia of our bene-
ficial trade," as he once called, in one of his lectures,
the equipment of a professor of the healing craft.

When we were shown in, Mrs. Westenra met us. She was
alarmed, but not nearly so much as I expected to find her.
Nature in one of her beneficient moods has ordained that
even death has some antidote to its own terrors. Here, in
a case where any shock may prove fatal, matters are so order-
ed that, from some cause or other, the things not personal,
even the terrible change in her daughter to whom she is so
attached, do not seem to reach her. It is something like
the way dame Nature gathers round a foreign body an enve-
lope of some insensitive tissue which can protect from evil
that which it would otherwise harm by contact. If this be
an ordered selfishness, then we should pause before we con-
demn any one for the vice of egoism, for there may be deeper
root for its causes than we have knowledge of.

I used my knowledge of this phase of spiritual patho-
logy, and set down a rule that she should not be present
with Lucy, or think of her illness more than was absolutely
required. She assented readily, so readily that I saw again
the hand of Nature fighting for life. Van Helsing and I were
shown up to Lucy's room. If I was shocked when I saw her
yesterday, I was horrified when I saw her today.

She was ghastly, chalkily pale. The red seemed to have
gone even from her lips and gums, and the bones of her face
stood out prominently. Her breathing was painful to see or
hear. Van Helsing's face grew set as marble, and his eye-
brows converged till they almost touched over his nose. Lucy
lay motionless, and did not seem to have strength to speak,
so for a while we were all silent. Then Van Helsing beckon-
ed to me, and we went gently out of the room. The instant
we had closed the door he stepped quickly along the passage
to the next door, which was open. Then he pulled me quickly
in with him and closed the door. "My god!" he said. "This
is dreadful. There is not time to be lost. She will die
for sheer want of blood to keep the heart's action as it
should be. There must be a transfusion of blood at once. Is
it you or me?"

"I am younger and stronger, Professor. It must be me."

"Then get ready at once. I will bring up my bag. I am
prepared."

I went downstairs with him, and as we were going there
was a knock at the hall door. When we reached the hall, the
maid had just opened the door, and Arthur was stepping
quickly in. He rushed up to me, saying in an eager whisper,

"Jack, I was so anxious. I read between the lines of
your letter, and have been in an agony. The dad was better,
so I ran down here to see for myself. Is not that gentleman
Dr. Van Helsing? I am so thankful to you, sir, for coming."

When first the Professor's eye had lit upon him, he had
been angry at his interruption at such a time, but now, as
he took in his stalwart proportions and recognized the
strong young manhood which seemed to emanate from him, his
eyes gleamed. Without a pause he said to him as he held out
his hand,

"Sir, you have come in time. You are the lover of our
dear miss. She is bad, very, very bad. Nay, my child, do
not go like that."For he suddenly grew pale and sat down in
a chair almost fainting. "You are to help her. You can do
more than any that live, and your courage is your best help."

"What can I do?" asked Arthur hoarsely. "Tell me, and
I shall do it. My life is hers' and I would give the last
drop of blood in my body for her."

The Professor has a strongly humorous side, and I could
from old knowledge detect a trace of its origin in his
answer.

"My young sir, I do not ask so much as that, not the
last!"

"What shall I do?" There was fire in his eyes, and his
open nostrils quivered with intent. Van Helsing slapped him
on the shoulder.

"Come!" he said. "You are a man, and it is a man we
want. You are better than me, better than my friend John."
Arthur looked bewildered, and the Professor went on by ex-
plaining in a kindly way.

"Young miss is bad, very bad. She wants blood, and
blood she must have or die. My friend John and I have con-
sulted, and we are about to perform what we call transfusion
of blood, to transfer from full veins of one to the empty
veins which pine for him. John was to give his blood, as he
is the more young and strong than me."--Here Arthur took my
hand and wrung it hard in silence.--"But now you are here,
you are more good than us, old or young, who toil much in
the world of thought. Our nerves are not so calm and our
blood so bright than yours!"

Arthur turned to him and said, "If you only knew how
gladly I would die for her you would understand. . ." He
stopped with a sort of choke in his voice.

"Good boy!" said Van Helsing. "In the not-so-far-off
you will be happy that you have done all for her you love.
Come now and be silent. You shall kiss her once before it
is done, but then you must go, and you must leave at my
sign. Say no word to Madame. You know how it is with her.
There must be no shock, any knowledge of this would be one.
Come!"

We all went up to Lucy's room. Arthur by direction re-
mained outside. Lucy turned her head and looked at us, but
said nothing. She was not asleep, but she was simply too
weak to make the effort. Her eyes spoke to us, that was all.

Van Helsing took some things from his bag and laid
them on a little table out of sight. Then he mixed a nar-
cotic, and coming over to the bed, said cheerily, "Now,
little miss, here is your medicine. Drink it off, like a
good child. See, I lift you so that to swallow is easy.
Yes." She had made the effort with success.

It astonished me how long the drug took to act. This,
in fact, marked the extent of her weakness. The time seemed
endless until sleep began to flicker in her eyelids. At
last, however, the narcotic began to manifest its potency,
and she fell into a deep sleep. When the Professor was sat-
isfied, he called Arthur into the room, and bade him strip
off his coat. Then he added, "You may take that one little
kiss whiles I bring over the table. Friend John, help to
me!" So neither of us looked whilst he bent over her.

Van Helsing, turning to me, said, "He is so young and
strong, and of blood so pure that we need not defibrinate
it."

Then with swiftness, but with absolute method, Van Hel-
sing performed the operation. As the transfusion went on,
something like life seemed to come back to poor Lucy's
cheeks, and through Arthur's growing pallor the joy of his
face seemed absolutely to shine. After a bit I began to
grow anxious, for the loss of blood was telling on Arthur,
strong man as he was. It gave me an idea of what a terrible
strain Lucy's system must have undergone that what weakened
Arthur only partially restored her.

But the Professor's face was set, and he stood watch in
hand, and with his eyes fixed now on the patient and now on
Arthur. I could hear my own heart beat. Presently, he said
in a soft voice, "Do not stir an instant. It is enough. You
attend him. I will look to her."

When all was over, I could see how much Arthur was weak-
ened. I dressed the wound and took his arm to bring him
away, when Van Helsing spoke without turning round, the man
seems to have eyes in the back of his head, "The brave lover,
I think, deserve another kiss, which he shall have present-
ly." And as he had now finished his operation, he adjusted
the pillow to the patient's head. As he did so the narrow
black velvet band which she seems always to wear round her
throat, buckled with an old diamond buckle which her lover
had given her, was dragged a little up, and showed a red
mark on her throat.

Arthur did not notice it, but I could hear the deep
hiss of indrawn breath which is one of Van Helsing's ways
of betraying emotion. He said nothing at the moment, but
turned to me, saying, "Now take down our brave young lover,
give him of the port wine, and let him lie down a while. He
must then go home and rest, sleep much and eat much, that he
may be recruited of what he has so given to his love. He
must not stay here. Hold a moment! I may take it, sir, that
you are anxious of result. Then bring it with you, that in
all ways the operation is successful. You have saved her
life this time, and you can go home and rest easy in mind
that all that can be is. I shall tell her all when she is
well. She shall love you none the less for what you have
done. Goodbye."

When Arthur had gone I went back to the room. Lucy
was sleeping gently, but her breathing was stronger. I
could see the counterpane move as her breast heaved. By
the bedside sat Van Helsing, looking at her intently. The
velvet band again covered the red mark. I asked the Pro-
fessor in a whisper, "What do you make of that mark on her
throat?"

"What do you make of it?"

"I have not examined it yet," I answered, and then and
there proceeded to loose the band. Just over the external
jugular vein there were two punctures, not large, but not
wholesome looking. There was no sign of disease, but the
edges were white and worn looking, as if by some trituration.
It at once occurred to me that that this wound, or whatever
it was, might be the means of that manifest loss of blood.
But I abandoned the idea as soon as it formed, for such a
thing could not be. The whole bed would have been drenched
to a scarlet with the blood which the girl must have lost
to leave such a pallor as she had before the transfusion.

"Well?" said Van Helsing.

"Well," said I. "I can make nothing of it."

The Professor stood up. "I must go back to Amsterdam
tonight," he said "There are books and things there which
I want. You must remain here all night, and you must not
let your sight pass from her."

"Shall I have a nurse?" I asked.

"We are the best nurses, you and I. You keep watch all
night. See that she is well fed, and that nothing disturbs
her. You must not sleep all the night. Later on we can sleep,
you and I. I shall be back as soon as possible. And then
we may begin."

"May begin?" I said. "What on earth do you mean?"

"We shall see!" he answered, as he hurried out. He came
back a moment later and put his head inside the door and
said with a warning finger held up, "Remember, she is your
charge. If you leave her, and harm befall, you shall not
sleep easy hereafter!"


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--CONTINUED


8 September.--I sat up all night with Lucy. The opiate
worked itself off towards dusk, and she waked naturally. She
looked a different being from what she had been before the
operation. Her spirits even were good, and she was full of a
happy vivacity, but I could see evidences of the absolute
prostration which she had undergone. When I told Mrs. West-
enra that Dr. Van Helsing had directed that I should sit up
with her, she almost pooh-poohed the idea, pointing out her
daughter's renewed strength and excellent spirits. I was
firm, however, and made preparations for my long vigil. When
her maid had prepared her for the night I came in, having in
the meantime had supper, and took a seat by the bedside.

She did not in any way make objection, but looked at me
gratefully whenever I caught her eye.  After a long spell she
seemed sinking off to sleep, but with an effort seemed to
pull herself together and shook it off. It was apparent that
she did not want to sleep, so I tackled the subject at once.

"You do not want to sleep?"

"No. I am afraid."

"Afraid to go to sleep! Why so? It is the boon we all
crave for."

"Ah, not if you were like me, if sleep was to you a pre-
sage of horror!"

"A presage of horror! What on earth do you mean?"

"I don't know. Oh, I don't know. And that is what is
so terrible. All this weakness comes to me in sleep, until
I dread the very thought."

"But, my dear girl, you may sleep tonight. I am here
watching you, and I can promise that nothing will happen."

"Ah, I can trust you!" she said.

I seized the opportunity, and said, "I promise that if
I see any evidence of bad dreams I will wake you at once."

"You will? Oh, will you really? How good you are to me.
Then I will sleep!" And almost at the word she gave a deep
sigh of relief, and sank back, asleep.

All night long I watched by her. She never stirred, but
slept on and on in a deep, tranquil, life-giving, health-
giving sleep. Her lips were slightly parted, and her breast
rose and fell with the regularity of a pendulum. There was
a smile on her face, and it was evident that no bad dreams
had come to disturb her peace of mind.

In the early morning her maid came, and I left her in
her care and took myself back home, for I was anxious about
many things. I sent a short wire to Van Helsing and to
Arthur, telling them of the excellent result of the opera-
tion. My own work, with its manifold arrears, took me all
day to clear off. It was dark when I was able to inquire
about my zoophagous patient. The report was good. He had
been quite quiet for the past day and night. A telegram
came from Van Helsing at Amsterdam whilst I was at dinner,
suggesting that I should be at Hillingham tonight, as it
might be well to be at hand, and stating that he was leav-
ing by the night mail and would join me early in the morn-
ing.


9 September.--I was pretty tired and worn out when I
got to Hillingham. For two nights I had hardly had a wink
of sleep, and my brain was beginning to feel that numbness
which marks cerebral exhaustion. Lucy was up and in cheer-
ful spirits. When she shook hands with me she looked sharp-
ly in my face and said,

"No sitting up tonight for you. You are worn out. I
am quite well again. Indeed, I am, and if there is to be any
sitting up, it is I who will sit up with you."

I would not argue the point, but went and had my supper.
Lucy came with me, and, enlivened by her charming presence,
I made an excellent meal, and had a couple of glasses of the
more than excellent port. Then Lucy took me upstairs, and
showed me a room next her own, where a cozy fire was burning.

"Now," she said. "You must stay here. I shall leave
this door open and my door too. You can lie on the sofa for
I know that nothing would induce any of you doctors to go
to bed whilst there is a patient above the horizon. If I
want anything I shall call out, and you can come to me at
once."

I could not but acquiesce, for I was dog tired, and
could not have sat up had I tried. So, on her renewing her
promise to call me if she should want anything, I lay on the
sofa, and forgot all about everything.

LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY


9 September.--I feel so happy tonight. I have been so
miserably weak, that to be able to think and move about is
like feeling sunshine after a long spell of east wind out
of a steel sky. Somehow Arthur feels very, very close to me.
I seem to feel his presence warm about me. I suppose it is
that sickness and weakness are selfish things and turn our
inner eyes and sympathy on ourselves, whilst health and
strength give love rein, and in thought and feeling he can
wander where he wills. I know where my thoughts are. If
only Arthur knew! My dear, my dear, your ears must tingle
as you sleep, as mine do waking. Oh, the blissful rest of
last night! How I slept, with that dear, good Dr. Seward
watching me. And tonight I shall not fear to sleep, since
he is close at hand and within call. Thank everybody for
being so good to me. Thank God! Goodnight Arthur.

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


10 September.--I was conscious of the Professor's hand
on my head, and started awake all in a second. That is one
of the things that we learn in an asylum, at any rate.

"And how is our patient?"

"Well, when I left her, or rather when she left me," I
answered.

"Come, let us see," he said. And together we went into
the room.

The blind was down, and I went over to raise it gently,
whilst Van Helsing stepped, with his soft, cat-like tread,
over to the bed.

As I raised the blind, and the morning sunlight flood-
ed the room, I heard the Professor's low hiss of inspiration,
and knowing its rarity, a deadly fear shot through my heart.
As I passed over he moved back, and his exclamation of
horror, "Gott in Himmel!" needed no enforcement from his
agonized face. He raised his hand and pointed to the bed,
and his iron face was drawn and ashen white. I felt my knees
begin to tremble.

There on the bed, seemingly in a swoon, lay poor Lucy,
more horribly white and wan-looking than ever. Even the
lips were white, and the gums seemed to have shrunken back
from the teeth, as we sometimes see in a corpse after a pro-
longed illness.

Van Helsing raised his foot to stamp in anger, but the
instinct of his life and all the long years of habit stood
to him, and he put it down again softly.

"Quick!" he said. "Bring the brandy."

I flew to the dining room, and returned with the de-
canter. He wetted the poor white lips with it, and together
we rubbed palm and wrist and heart. He felt her heart, and
after a few moments of agonizing suspense said,

"It is not too late. It beats, though but feebly. All
our work is undone. We must begin again. There is no young
Arthur here now. I have to call on you yourself this time,
friend John." As he spoke, he was dipping into his bag, and
producing the instruments of transfusion. I had taken off my
coat and rolled up my shirt sleeve. There was no possibility
of an opiate just at present, and no need of one. and so,
without a moment's delay, we began the operation.

After a time, it did not seem a short time either, for
the draining away of one's blood, no matter how willingly
it be given, is a terrible feeling, Van Helsing held up a
warning finger. "Do not stir," he said. "But I fear that
with growing strength she may wake, and that would make
danger, oh, so much danger. But I shall precaution take. I
shall give hypodermic injection of morphia." He proceeded
then, swiftly and deftly, to carry out his intent.

The effect on Lucy was not bad, for the faint seemed
to merge subtly into the narcotic sleep. It was with a
feeling of personal pride that I could see a faint tinge of
color steal back into the pallid cheeks and lips. No man
knows, till he experiences it, what it is to feel his own
lifeblood drawn away into the veins of the woman he loves.

The Professor watched me critically. "That will do,"
he said. "Already?" I remonstrated. "You took a great
deal more from Art." To which he smiled a sad sort of smile
as he replied,

"He is her lover, her fiance. You have work, much work
to do for her and for others, and the present will suffice.

When we stopped the operation, he attended to Lucy,
whilst I applied digital pressure to my own incision. I laid
down, while I waited his leisure to attend to me, for I felt
faint and a little sick.  By and by he bound up my wound, and
sent me downstairs to get a glass of wine for myself. As I
was leaving the room, he came after me, and half whispered.

"Mind, nothing must be said of this. If our young lover
should turn up unexpected, as before, no word to him. It
would at once frighten him and enjealous him, too. There
must be none. So!"

When I came back he looked at me carefully, and then
said, "You are not much the worse. Go into the room, and
lie on your sofa, and rest awhile, then have much breakfast
and come here to me."

I followed out his orders, for I knew how right and
wise they were. I had done my part, and now my next duty
was to keep up my strength. I felt very weak, and in the
weakness lost something of the amazement at what had occur-
red. I fell asleep on the sofa, however, wondering over
and over again how Lucy had made such a retrograde movement,
and how she could have been drained of so much blood with
no sign any where to show for it. I think I must have con-
tinued my wonder in my dreams, for, sleeping and waking my
thoughts always came back to the little punctures in her
throat and the ragged, exhausted appearance of their edges,
tiny though they were.

Lucy slept well into the day, and when she woke she was
fairly well and strong, though not nearly so much so as the
day before. When Van Helsing had seen her, he went out for
a walk, leaving me in charge, with strict injunctions that
I was not to leave her for a moment. I could hear his voice
in the hall, asking the way to the nearest telegraph office.

Lucy chatted with me freely, and seemed quite uncon-
scious that anything had happened. I tried to keep her
amused and interested. When her mother came up to see her,
she did not seem to notice any change whatever, but said to
me gratefully,

"We owe you so much, Dr. Seward, for all you have done,
but you really must now take care not to overwork yourself.
You are looking pale yourself. You want a wife to nurse
and look after you a bit, that you do!" As she spoke, Lucy
turned crimson, though it was only momentarily, for her poor
wasted veins could not stand for long an unwonted drain to
the head. The reaction came in excessive pallor as she
turned imploring eyes on me. I smiled and nodded, and laid
my finger on my lips. With a sigh, she sank back amid her
pillows.

Van Helsing returned in a couple of hours, and present-
ly said to me. "Now you go home, and eat much and drink
enough. Make yourself strong. I stay here tonight, and I
shall sit up with little miss myself. You and I must watch
the case, and we must have none other to know. I have grave
reasons. No, do not ask the. Think what you will. Do not
fear to think even the most not-improbable. Goodnight."

In the hall two of the maids came to me, and asked if
they or either of them might not sit up with Miss Lucy. They
implored me to let them, and when I said it was Dr. Van
Helsing's wish that either he or I should sit up, they asked
me quite piteously to intercede with the`foreign gentleman'.
I was much touched by their kindness. Perhaps it is because
I am weak at present, and perhaps because it was on Lucy's
account, that their devotion was manifested. For over and
over again have I seen similar instances of woman's kind-
ness. I got back here in time for a late dinner, went my
rounds, all well, and set this down whilst waiting for sleep.
It is coming.


11 September.--This afternoon I went over to Hilling-
ham. Found Van Helsing in excellent spirits, and Lucy much
better. Shortly after I had arrived, a big parcel from
abroad came for the Professor. He opened it with much im-
pressment, assumed, of course, and showed a great bundle of
white flowers.

"These are for you, Miss Lucy," he said.

"For me? Oh, Dr. Van Helsing!"

"Yes, my dear, but not for you to play with. These are
medicines." Here Lucy made a wry face. "Nay, but they are
not to take in a decoction or in nauseous form, so you need
not snub that so charming nose, or I shall point out to my
friend Arthur what woes he may have to endure in seeing so
much beauty that he so loves so much distort.  Aha, my pretty
miss, that bring the so nice nose all straight again. This
is medicinal, but you do not know how. I put him in your
window, I make pretty wreath, and hang him round your neck,
so you sleep well. Oh, yes! They, like the lotus flower,
make your trouble forgotten. It smell so like the waters of
Lethe, and of that fountain of youth that the Conquistadores
sought for in the Floridas, and find him all too late."

Whilst he was speaking, Lucy had been examining the
flowers and smelling them. Now she threw them down saying,
with half laughter, and half disgust,

"Oh, Professor, I believe you are only putting up a
joke on me. Why, these flowers are only common garlic."

To my surprise, Van Helsing rose up and said with all
his sternness, his iron jaw set and his bushy eyebrows
meeting,

"No trifling with me! I never jest! There is grim
purpose in what I do, and I warn you that you do not thwart
me. Take care, for the sake of others if not for your own."
Then seeing poor Lucy scared, as she might well be, he went
on more gently, "Oh, little miss, my dear, do not fear me.
I only do for your good, but there is much virtue to you
in those so common flowers. See, I place them myself in
your room. I make myself the wreath that you are to wear.
But hush! No telling to others that make so inquisitive
questions. We must obey, and silence is a part of obed-
ience, and obedience is to bring you strong and well into
loving arms that wait for you. Now sit still a while. Come
with me, friend John, and you shall help me deck the room
with my garlic, which is all the war from Haarlem, where my
friend Vanderpool raise herb in his glass houses all the
year. I had to telegraph yesterday, or they would not have
been here."

We went into the room, taking the flowers with us. The
Professor's actions were certainly odd and not to be found
in any pharmacopeia that I ever heard of. First he fasten-
ed up the windows and latched them securely. Next, taking
a handful of the flowers, he rubbed them all over the sashes,
as though to ensure that every whiff of air that might get
in would be laden with the garlic smell. Then with the wisp
he rubbed all over the jamb of the door, above, below, and
at each side, and round the fireplace in the same way. It
all seemed grotesque to me, and presently I said, "Well,
Professor, I know you always have a reason for what you do,
but this certainly puzzles me. It is well we have no scep-
tic here, or he would say that you were working some spell
to keep out an evil spirit."

"Perhaps I am!" He answered quietly as he began to
make the wreath which Lucy was to wear round her neck.

We then waited whilst Lucy made her toilet for the
night, and when she was in bed he came and himself fixed
the wreath of garlic round her neck. The last words he said
to her were,

"Take care you do not disturb it, and even if the room
feel close, do not tonight open the window or the door."

"I promise," said Lucy. "And thank you both a thousand
times for all your kindness to me! Oh, what have I done to
be blessed with such friends?"

As we left the house in my fly, which was waiting, Van
Helsing said, "Tonight I can sleep in peace, and sleep I want,
two nights of travel, much reading in the day between, and
much anxiety on the day to follow, and a night to sit up,
without to wink. Tomorrow in the morning early you call for
me, and we come together to see our pretty miss, so much
more strong for my `spell' which I have work. Ho, ho!"

He seemed so confident that I, remembering my own con-
fidence two nights before and with the baneful result, felt
awe and vague terror. It must have been my weakness that
made me hesitate to tell it to my friend, but I felt it all
the more, like unshed tears.





CHAPTER 11


LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY


12 September.--How good they all are to me. I quite
love that dear Dr. Van Helsing. I wonder why he was so
anxious about these flowers. He positively frightened me,
he was so fierce. And yet he must have been right, for I
feel comfort from them already. Somehow, I do not dread
being alone tonight, and I can go to sleep without fear. I
shall not mind any flapping outside the window. Oh, the
terrible struggle that I have had against sleep so often of
late, the pain of sleeplessness, or the pain of the fear of
sleep, and with such unknown horrors as it has for me! How
blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads,
to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings
nothing but sweet dreams. Well, here I am tonight, hoping for
sleep, and lying like Ophelia in the play, with`virgin crants
and maiden strewments.' I never liked garlic before, but to-
night it is delightful! There is peace in its smell. I feel
sleep coming already. Goodnight, everybody.

DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


13 September.--Called at the Berkeley and found Van
Helsing, as usual, up to time. The carriage ordered from
the hotel was waiting. The Professor took his bag, which he
always brings with him now.

Let all be put down exactly. Van Helsing and I arrived
at Hillingham at eight o'clock. It was a lovely morning. The
bright sunshine and all the fresh feeling of early autumn
seemed like the completion of nature's annual work. The
leaves were turning to all kinds of beautiful colors, but had
not yet begun to drop from the trees. When we entered we met
Mrs. Westenra coming out of the morning room. She is always
an early riser. She greeted us warmly and said,

"You will be glad to know that Lucy is better. The
dear child is still asleep. I looked into her room and saw
her, but did not go in, lest I should disturb her." The
Professor smiled, and looked quite jubilant. He rubbed his
hands together, and said, "Aha! I thought I had diagnosed
the case. My treatment is working."

To which she replied, "You must not take all the credit
to yourself, doctor. Lucy's state this morning is due in
part to me."

"How do you mean, ma'am?" asked the Professor.

"Well, I was anxious about the dear child in the night,
and went into her room. She was sleeping soundly, so soundly
that even my coming did not wake her. But the room was aw-
fully stuffy. There were a lot of those horrible, strong-
smelling flowers about everywhere, and she had actually a
bunch of them round her neck. I feared that the heavy odor
would be too much for the dear child in her weak state, so
I took them all away and opened a bit of the window to let
in a little fresh air. You will be pleased with her, I am
sure."

She moved off into her boudoir, where she usually break-
fasted early. As she had spoken, I watched the Professor's
face, and saw it turn ashen gray. He had been able to retain
his self-command whilst the poor lady was present, for he
knew her state and how mischievous a shock would be. He
actually smiled on her as he held open the door for her to
pass into her room. But the instant she had disappeared he
pulled me, suddenly and forcibly, into the dining room and
closed the door.

Then, for the first time in my life, I saw Van Helsing
break down. He raised his hands over his head in a sort of
mute despair, and then beat his palms together in a helpless
way. Finally he sat down on a chair, and putting his hands
before his face, began to sob, with loud, dry sobs that seem-
ed to come from the very racking of his heart.

Then he raised his arms again, as though appealing to
the whole universe. "God! God! God!" he said. "What have
we done, what has this poor thing done, that we are so sore
beset? Is there fate amongst us still, send down from the
pagan world of old, that such things must be, and in such
way? This poor mother, all unknowing, and all for the best
as she think, does such thing as lose her daughter body and
soul, and we must not tell her, we must not even warn her,
or she die, then both die. Oh, how we are beset! How are
all the powers of the devils against us!"

Suddenly he jumped to his feet. "Come," he said."come,
we must see and act. Devils or no devils, or all the devils
at once, it matters not. We must fight him all the same." He
went to the hall door for his bag, and together we went up to
Lucy's room.

Once again I drew up the blind, whilst Van Helsing went
towards the bed. This time he did not start as he looked on
the poor face with the same awful, waxen pallor as before. He
wore a look of stern sadness and infinite pity.

"As I expected," he murmured, with that hissing inspir-
ation of his which meant so much. Without a word he went and
locked the door, and then began to set out on the little
table the instruments for yet another operation of transfu-
sion of blood. I had long ago recognized the necessity, and
begun to take off my coat, but he stopped me with a warning
hand. "No!" he said. "Today you must operate. I shall pro-
vide. You are weakened already." As he spoke he took off
his coat and rolled up his shirtsleeve.

Again the operation. Again the narcotic. Again some
return of color to the ashy cheeks, and the regular breath-
ing of healthy sleep. This time I watched whilst Van Helsing
recruited himself and rested.

Presently he took an opportunity of telling Mrs. West-
enra that she must not remove anything from Lucy's room
without consulting him. That the flowers were of medicinal
value, and that the breathing of their odor was a part of
the system of cure. Then he took over the care of the case
himself, saying that he would watch this night and the next,
and would send me word when to come.

After another hour Lucy waked from her sleep, fresh
and bright and seemingly not much the worse for her ter-
rible ordeal.

What does it all mean? I am beginning to wonder if my
long habit of life amongst the insane is beginning to tell
upon my own brain.

LUCY WESTENRA'S DIARY


17 September.--Four days and nights of peace. I am
getting so strong again that I hardly know myself. It is as
if I had passed through some long nightmare, and had just
awakened to see the beautiful sunshine and feel the fresh
air of the morning around me. I have a dim half remem-
brance of long, anxious times of waiting and fearing, dark-
ness in which there was not even the pain of hope to make
present distress more poignant. And then long spells of
oblivion, and the rising back to life as a diver coming up
through a great press of water. Since, however, Dr. Van
Helsing has been with me, all this bad dreaming seems to
have passed away. The noises that used to frighten me out
of my wits, the flapping against the windows, the distant
voices which seemed so close to me, the harsh sounds that
came from I know not where and commanded me to do I know
not what, have all ceased. I go to bed now without any fear
of sleep. I do not even try to keep awake. I have grown
quite fond of the garlic, and a boxful arrives for me every
day from Haarlem. Tonight Dr. Van Helsing is going away, as
he has to be for a day in Amsterdam. But I need not be
watched. I am well enough to be left alone.

Thank God for Mother's sake, and dear Arthur's, and for
all our friends who have been so kind! I shall not even feel
the change, for last night Dr. Van Helsing slept in his chair
a lot of the time. I found him asleep twice when I awoke.
But I did not fear to go to sleep again, although the boughs
or bats or something flapped almost angrily against the
window panes.




THE PALL MALL GAZETTE 18 September.

THE ESCAPED WOLF
PERILOUS ADVENTURE OF OUR INTERVIEWER

INTERVIEW WITH THE KEEPER IN THE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS


After many inquiries and almost as many refusals, and
perpetually using the words `PALL MALL GAZETTE ' as a sort
of talisman, I managed to find the keeper of the section of
the Zoological Gardens in which the wold department is in-
cluded. Thomas Bilder lives in one of the cottages in the
enclosure behind the elephant house, and was just sitting
down to his tea when I found him. Thomas and his wife are
hospitable folk, elderly, and without children, and if the
specimen I enjoyed of their hospitality be of the average
kind, their lives must be pretty comfortable. The keeper
would not enter on what he called business until the supper
was over, and we were all satisfied. Then when the table was
cleared, and he had lit his pipe, he said,

"Now, Sir, you can go on and arsk me what you want.
You'll excoose me refoosin' to talk of perfeshunal subjucts
afore meals. I gives the wolves and the jackals and the
hyenas in all our section their tea afore I begins to arsk
them questions."

"How do you mean, ask them questions?" I queried, wish-
ful to get him into a talkative humor.

" `Ittin' of them over the `ead with a pole is one way.
Scratchin' of their ears in another, when gents as is flush
wants a bit of a show-orf to their gals. I don't so much
mind the fust, the `ittin of the pole part afore I chucks in
their dinner, but I waits till they've `ad their sherry and
kawffee, so to speak, afore I tries on with the ear scratchin'.
Mind you," he added philosophically, "there's a deal of the
same nature in us as in them theer animiles. Here's you
a-comin' and arskin' of me questions about my business, and
I that grump-like that only for your bloomin' `arf-quid I'd
`a' seen you blowed fust `fore I'd answer. Not even when
you arsked me sarcastic like if I'd like you to arsk the
Superintendent if you might arsk me questions. Without
offence did I tell yer to go to `ell?"

"You did."

"An' when you said you'd report me for usin' obscene
language that was `ittin' me over the `ead. But the `arf-
quid made that all right. I weren't a-goin' to fight, so I
waited for the food, and did with my `owl as the wolves and
lions and tigers does. But, lor' love yer `art, now that the
old `ooman has stuck a chunk of her tea-cake in me, an'
rinsed me out with her bloomin' old teapot, and I've lit hup,
you may scratch my ears for all you're worth, and won't even
get a growl out of me. Drive along with your questions. I
know what yer a-comin' at, that `ere escaped wolf."

"Exactly. I want you to give me your view of it. Just
tell me how it happened, and when I know the facts I'll get
you to say what you consider was the cause of it, and how
you think the whole affair will end."

"All right, guv'nor. This `ere is about the `ole story.
That`ere wolf what we called Bersicker was one of three gray
ones that came from Norway to Jamrach's, which we bought off
him four years ago. He was a nice well-behaved wolf, that
never gave no trouble to talk of. I'm more surprised at `im
for wantin' to get out nor any other animile in the place.
But, there, you can't trust wolves no more nor women."

"Don't you mind him, Sir!" broke in Mrs. Tom, with a
cheery laugh. " `E's got mindin' the animiles so long that
blest if he ain't like a old wolf `isself! But there ain't
no `arm in `im."

"Well, Sir, it was about two hours after feedin' yes-
terday when I first hear my disturbance. I was makin' up a
litter in the monkey house for a young puma which is ill.
But when I heard the yelpin' and `owlin' I kem away straight.
There was Bersicker a-tearin' like a mad thing at the bars
as if he wanted to get out. There wasn't much people about
that day, and close at hand was only one man, a tall, thin
chap, with a `ook nose and a pointed beard, with a few
white hairs runnin' through it. He had a `ard, cold look
and red eyes, and I took a sort of mislike to him, for it
seemed as if it was `im as they was hirritated at. He `ad
white kid gloves on `is `ands, and he pointed out the ani-
miles to me and says, `Keeper, these wolves seem upset at
something.'

"`Maybe it's you,' says I, for I did not like the airs
as he give `isself. He didn't get angry, as I `oped he
would, but he smiled a kind of insolent smile, with a mouth
full of white, sharp teeth. `Oh no, they wouldn't like me,'
`e says.

" `Ow yes, they would,' says I, a-imitatin'of him.`They
always like a bone or two to clean their teeth on about tea
time, which you `as a bagful.'

"Well, it was a odd thing, but when the animiles see us
a-talkin' they lay down, and when I went over to Bersicker he
let me stroke his ears same as ever. That there man kem over,
and blessed but if he didn't put in his hand and stroke the
old wolf's ears too!

" `Tyke care,' says I. `Bersicker is quick.'

" `Never mind,' he says. I'm used to `em!'

" `Are you in the business yourself?" I says, tyking off
my `at, for a man what trades in wolves, anceterer, is a good
friend to keepers.

" `Nom' says he, `not exactly in the business, but I
`ave made pets of several.' and with that he lifts his `at
as perlite as a lord, and walks away. Old Bersicker kep'
a-lookin' arter `im till `e was out of sight, and then went
and lay down in a corner and wouldn't come hout the `ole
hevening. Well, larst night, so soon as the moon was hup,
the wolves here all began a-`owling. There warn't nothing
for them to `owl at. There warn't no one near, except some
one that was evidently a-callin' a dog somewheres out back
of the gardings in the Park road. Once or twice I went out
to see that all was right, and it was, and then the `owling
stopped. Just before twelve o'clock I just took a look
round afore turnin' in, an', bust me, but when I kem oppo-
site to old Bersicker's cage I see the rails broken and
twisted about and the cage empty. And that's all I know
for certing."

"Did any one else see anything?"

"One of our gard`ners was a-comin' `ome about that time
from a `armony, when he sees a big gray dog comin' out
through the garding `edges.  At least, so he says, but I don't
give much for it myself, for if he did `e never said a word
about it to his missis when `e got `ome, and it was only af-
ter the escape of the wolf was made known, and we had been up
all night a-huntin' of the Park for Bersicker, that he remem-
bered seein' anything. My own belief was that the `armony
`ad got into his `ead."

"Now, Mr. Bilder, can you account in any way for the
escape of the wolf?"

"Well, Sir," he said, with a suspicious sort of modesty,
"I think I can, but I don't know as `ow you'd be satisfied
with the theory."

"Certainly I shall. If a man like you, who knows the
animals from experience, can't hazard a good guess at any
rate, who is even to try?"

"well then, Sir, I accounts for it this way. It seems
to me that `ere wolf escaped--simply because he wanted to
get out."

From the hearty way that both Thomas and his wife laugh-
ed at the joke I could see that it had done service before,
and that the whole explanation was simply an elaborate sell.
I couldn't cope in badinage with the worthy Thomas, but I
thought I knew a surer way to his heart, so I said, "Now, Mr.
Bilder, we'll consider that first half-sovereign worked off,
and this brother of his is waiting to be claimed when you've
told me what you think will happen."

"Right y`are, Sir," he said briskly. "Ye`ll excoose me,
I know, for a-chaffin' of ye, but the old woman her winked
at me, which was as much as telling me to go on."

"Well, I never!" said the old lady.

"My opinion is this. That `ere wolf is a`idin' of,
somewheres. The gard`ner wot didn't remember said he was
a-gallopin' northward faster than a horse could go, but I
don't believe him, for, yer see, Sir, wolves don't gallop
no more nor dogs does, they not bein' built that way. Wolves
is fine things in a storybook, and I dessay when they gets
in packs and does be chivyin' somethin' that's more afeared
than they is they can make a devil of a noise and chop it
up, whatever it is. But, Lor' bless you, in real life a wolf
is only a low creature, not half so clever or bold as a good
dog, and not half a quarter so much fight in `im. This one
ain't been used to fightin' or even to providin' for hisself,
and more like he's somewhere round the Park a'hidin' an'
a'shiverin' of, and if he thinks at all, wonderin' where he
is to get his breakfast from. Or maybe he's got down some
area and is in a coal cellar. My eye, won't some cook get
a rum start when she sees his green eyes a-shinin' at her
out of the dark! If he can't get food he's bound to look
for it, and mayhap he may chance to light on a butcher's
shop in time. If he doesn't, and some nursemaid goes out
walkin' or orf with a soldier, leavin' of the hinfant in the
perambulator--well, then I shouldn't be surprised if the
census is one babby the less. That's all."

I was handing him the half-sovereign, when something
came bobbing up against the window, and Mr. Bilder's face
doubled its natural length with surprise.

"God bless me!" he said. "If there ain't old Bersicker
come back by `isself!"

He went to the door and opened it, a most unnecessary
proceeding it seemed to me. I have always thought that a
wild animal never looks so well as when some obstacle of
pronounced durability is between us. A personal experience
has intensified rather than diminished that idea.

After all, however, there is nothing like custom, for
neither Bilder nor his wife thought any more of the wolf
than I should of a dog. The animal itself was a peaceful
and well-behaved as that father of all picture-wolves, Red
Riding Hood's quondam friend, whilst moving her confidence
in masquerade.

The whole scene was a unutterable mixture of comedy and
pathos. The wicked wolf that for a half a day had paralyzed
London and set all the children in town shivering in their
shoes, was there in a sort of penitent mood, and was received
and petted like a sort of vulpine prodigal son. Old Bilder
examined him all over with most tender solicitude, and when
he had finished with his penitent said,

"There, I knew the poor old chap would get into some
kind of trouble. Didn't I say it all along? Here's his
head all cut and full of broken glass. `E's been a-gettin'
over some bloomin' wall or other. It's a shyme that people
are allowed to top their walls with broken bottles. This
`ere's what comes of it. Come along, Bersicker."

He took the wolf and locked him up in a cage, with a
piece of meat that satisfied, in quantity at any rate, the
elementary conditions of the fatted calf, and went off to
report.

I came off too, to report the only exclusive information
that is given today regarding the strange escapade at the
Zoo.



DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


17 September.--I was engaged after dinner in my study
posting up my books, which, through press of other work and
the many visits to Lucy, had fallen sadly into arrear. Sud-
denly the door was burst open, and in rushed my patient, with
his face distorted with passion. I was thunderstruck, for
such a thing as a patient getting of his own accord into the
Superintendent's study is almost unknown.

Without an instant's notice he made straight at me. He
had a dinner knife in his hand, and as I saw he was dangerous,
I tried to keep the table between us. He was too quick and
too strong for me, however, for before I could get my balance
he had struck at me and cut my left wrist rather severely.

Before he could strike again, however, I got in my right
hand and he was sprawling on his back on the floor. My wrist
bled freely, and quite a little pool trickled on to the car-
pet. I saw that my friend was not intent on further effort,
and occupied myself binding up my wrist, keeping a wary eye
on the prostrate figure all the time. When the attendants
rushed in, and we turned our attention to him, his employ-
ment positively sickened me. He was lying on his belly on
the floor licking up, like a dog, the blood which had fallen
from my wounded wrist. He was easily secured, and to my
surprise, went with the attendants quite placidly, simply
repeating over and over again, "The blood is the life! The
blood is the life!"

I cannot afford to lose blood just at present. I have
lost too much of late for my physical good, and then the pro-
longed strain of Lucy's illness and its horrible phases is
telling on me. I am over excited and weary, and I need rest,
rest, rest. Happily Van Helsing has not summoned me, so I
need not forego my sleep. Tonight I could not well do with-
out it.



TELEGRAM, VAN HELSING, ANTWERP, TO SEWARD, CARFAX

(Sent to Carfax, Sussex, as no county given, delivered late
by twenty-two hours.)

17 September.--Do not fail to be at Hilllingham tonight.
If not watching all the time, frequently visit and see that
flowers are as placed, very important, do not fail. Shall be
with you as soon as possible after arrival.



DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


18 September.--Just off train to London. The arrival of
Van Helsing's telegram filled me with dismay. A whole night
lost, and I know by bitter experience what may happen in a
night. Of course it is possible that all may be well, but
what may have happened? Surely there is some horrible doom
hanging over us that every possible accident should thwart
us in all we try to do. I shall take this cylinder with me,
and then I can complete my entry on Lucy's phonograph.




MEMORANDUM LEFT BY LUCY WESTENRA

17 September, Night.--I write this and leave it to be
seen, so that no one may by any chance get into trouble
through me. This is an exact record of what took place to-
night. I feel I am dying of weakness, and have barely
strength to write, but it must be done if I die in the doing.

I went to bed as usual, taking care that the flowers
were placed as Dr. Van Helsing directed, and soon fell
asleep.

I was waked by the flapping at the window, which had
begun after that sleep-walking on the cliff at Whitby when
Mina saved me, and which now I know so well. I was not
afraid, but I did wish that Dr. Seward was in the next room,
as Dr. Van Helsing said he would be, so that I might have
called him. I tried to sleep, but I could not. Then there
came to me the old fear of sleep, and I determined to keep
awake. Perversely sleep would try to come then when I did
not want it. So, as I feared to be alone, I opened my door
and called out. "Is there anybody there?" There was no
answer. I was afraid to wake mother, and so closed my door
again. Then outside in the shrubbery I heard a sort of howl
like a dog's, but more fierce and deeper. I went to the win-
dow and looked out, but could see nothing, except a big bat,
which had evidently been buffeting its wings against the
window. So I went back to bed again, but determined not to
go to sleep. Presently the door opened, and mother looked in.
Seeing by my moving that I was not asleep, she came in and
sat by me. She said to me even more sweetly and softly than
her wont,

"I was uneasy about you, darling, and came in to see
that you were all right."

I feared she might catch cold sitting there, and asked
her to come in and sleep with me, so she came into bed, and
lay down beside me. She did not take off her dressing gown,
for she said she would only stay a while and then go back
to her own bed. As she lay there in my arms, and I in hers
the flapping and buffeting came to the window again. She
was startled and a little frightened, and cried out, "What
is that?"

I tried to pacify her, and at last succeeded, and she
lay quiet. But I could hear her poor dear heart still beat-
ing terribly. After a while there was the howl again out in
the shrubbery, and shortly after there was a crash at the
window, and a lot of broken glass was hurled on the floor.
The window blind blew back with the wind that rushed in, and
in the aperture of the broken panes there was the head of a
great, gaunt gray wolf.

Mother cried out in a fright, and struggled up into a
sitting posture, and clutched wildly at anything that would
help her. Amongst other things, she clutched the wreath of
flowers that Dr. Van Helsing insisted on my wearing round
my neck, and tore it away from me. For a second or two she
sat up, pointing at the wolf, and there was a strange and
horrible gurgling in her throat. Then she fell over, as if
struck with lightning, and her head hit my forehead and made
me dizzy for a moment or two.

The room and all round seemed to spin round. I kept my
eyes fixed on the window, but the wolf drew his head back,
and a whole myriad of little specks seems to come blowing
in through the broken window, and wheeling and circling
round like the pillar of dust that travellers describe when
there is a simoon in the desert. I tried to stir, but there
was some spell upon me, and dear Mother's poor body, which
seemed to grow cold already, for her dear heart had ceased
to beat, weighed me down, and I remembered no more for a
while.

The time did not seem long, but very, very awful, till
I recovered consciousness again. Somewhere near, a passing
bell was tolling. The dogs all round the neighborhood were
howling, and in our shrubbery, seemingly just outside, a
nightingale was singing. I was dazed and stupid with pain
and terror and weakness, but the sound of the nightingale
seemed like the voice of my dead mother come back to comfort
me. The sounds seemed to have awakened the maids, too, for
I could hear their bare feet pattering outside my door. I
called to them, and they came in, and when they saw what had
happened, and what it was that lay over me on the bed, they
screamed out. The wind rushed in through the broken window,
and the door slammed to. They lifted off the body of my
dear mother, and laid her, covered up with a sheet, on the
bed after I had got up. They were all so frightened and
nervous that I directed them to go to the dining room and
each have a glass of wine. The door flew open for an instant
and closed again. The maids shrieked, and then went in a
body to the dining room, and I laid what flowers I had on
my dear mother's breast. When they were there I remembered
what Dr. Van Helsing had told me, but I didn't like to re-
move them, and besides, I would have some of the servants
to sit up with me now. I was surprised that the maids did
not come back. I called them, but got no answer, so I went
to the dining room to look for them.

My heart sank when I saw what had happened. They all
four lay helpless on the floor, breathing heavily. The de-
canter of sherry was on the table half full, but there was
a queer, acrid smell about. I was suspicious, and examined
the decanter. It smelt of laudanum, and looking on the
sideboard, I found that the bottle which Mother's doctor uses
for her--oh! did use--was empty. What am I to do? What am I
to do? I am back in the room with Mother. I cannot leave her,
and I am alone, save for the sleeping servants, whom some
one has drugged. Alone with the dead! I dare not go out, for
I can hear the low howl of the wolf through the broken
window.

The air seems full of specks, floating and circling in
the draught from the window, and the lights burn blue and
dim. What am I to do? God shield me from harm this night!
I shall hide this paper in my breast, where they shall find
it when they come to lay me out. My dear mother gone! It
is time that I go too. Goodbye, dear Arthur, if I should
not survive this night. God keep you, dear, and God help me!





CHAPTER 12


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY


18 September.--I drove at once to Hillingham and ar-
rived early. Keeping my cab at the gate, I went up the
avenue alone. I knocked gently and rang as quietly as pos-
sible, for I feared to disturb Lucy or her mother, and hoped
to only bring a servant to the door. After a while, finding
no response, I knocked and rang again, still no answer. I
cursed the laziness of the servants that they should lie
abed at such an hour, for it was now ten o'clock, and so rang
and knocked again, but more impatiently, but still without
response. Hitherto I had blamed only the servants, but now
a terrible fear began to assail me. Was this desolation but
another link in the chain of doom which seemed drawing tight
round us? Was it indeed a house of death to which I had come,
too late? I know that minutes, even seconds of delay, might
mean hours of danger to Lucy, if she had had again one of
those frightful relapses, and I went round the house to try
if I could find by chance an entry anywhere.

I could find no means of ingress. Every window and door
was fastened and locked, and I returned baffled to the porch.
As I did so, I heard the rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven
horse's feet. They stopped at the gate, and a few seconds
later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue. When he saw
me, he gasped out, "Then it was you, and just arrived. How
is she? Are we too late? Did you not get my telegram?"

I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I
had only got his telegram early in the morning, and had not
a minute in coming here, and that I could not make any one
in the house hear me. He paused and raised his hat as he
said solemnly, "Then I fear we are too late. God's will be
done!"

With his usual recuperative energy, he went on, "Come.
If there be no way open to get in, we must make one. Time
is all in all to us now."

We went round to the back of the house, where there was
a kitchen window. The Professor took a small surgical saw
from his case, and handing it to me, pointed to the iron bars
which guarded the window. I attacked them at once and had
very soon cut through three of them. Then with a long, thin
knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and opened
the window. I helped the Professor in, and followed him.
There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants' rooms,
which were close at hand. We tried all the rooms as we went
along, and in the dining room, dimly lit by rays of light
through the shutters, found four servant women lying on the
floor. There was no need to think them dead, for their ster-
torous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the room
left no doubt as to their condition.

Van Helsing and I looked at each other, and as we moved
away he said, "We can attend to them later."Then we ascended
to Lucy's room. For an instant or two we paused at the door
to listen, but there was no sound that we could hear. With
white faces and trembling hands, we opened the door gently,
and entered the room.

How shall I describe what we saw? On the bed lay two
women, Lucy and her mother. The latter lay farthest in, and
she was covered with a white sheet, the edge of which had
been blown back by the drought through the broken window,
showing the drawn, white, face, with a look of terror fixed
upon it. By her side lay Lucy, with face white and still
more drawn. The flowers which had been round her neck we
found upon her mother's bosom, and her throat was bare, show-
ing the two little wounds which we had noticed before, but
looking horribly white and mangled. Without a word the Pro-
fessor bent over the bed, his head almost touching poor
Lucy's breast. Then he gave a quick turn of his head, as of
one who listens, and leaping to his feet, he cried out to me,
"It is not yet too late! Quick! Quick! Bring the brandy!"

I flew downstairs and returned with it, taking care to
smell and taste it, lest it, too, were drugged like the de-
canter of sherry which I found on the table. The maids were
still breathing, but more restlessly, and I fancied that the
narcotic was wearing off. I did not stay to make sure, but
returned to Van Helsing. He rubbed the brandy, as on another
occasion, on her lips and gums and on her wrists and the
palms of her hands. He said to me, "I can do this, all that
can be at the present. You go wake those maids. Flick them
in the face with a wet towel, and flick them hard. Make them
get heat and fire and a warm bath. This poor soul is nearly
as cold as that beside her. She will need be heated before
we can do anything more."

I went at once, and found little difficulty in waking
three of the women. The fourth was only a young girl, and
the drug had evidently affected her more strongly so I lift-
ed her on the sofa and let her sleep.

The others were dazed at first, but as remembrance came
back to them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner. I
was stern with them, however, and would not let them talk. I
told them that one life was bad enough to lose, and if they
delayed they would sacrifice Miss Lucy. So, sobbing and cry-
ing they went about their way, half clad as they were, and
prepared fire and water. Fortunately, the kitchen and boiler
fires were still alive, and there was no lack of hot water.
We got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed
her in it. Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a
knock at the hall door. One of the maids ran off, hurried
on some more clothes, and opened it. Then she returned and
whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come with
a message from Mr. Holmwood. I bade her simply tell him
that he must wait, for we could see no one now. She went
away with the message, and, engrossed with our work, I clean
forgot all about him.

I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in
such deadly earnest. I knew, as he knew, that it was a
stand-up fight with death, and in a pause told him so. He
answered me in a way that I did not understand, but with the
sternest look that his face could wear.

"If that were all, I would stop here where we are now,
and let her fade away into peace, for I see no light in life
over her horizon." He went on with his work with, if poss-
ible, renewed and more frenzied vigour.

Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat
was beginning to be of some effect. Lucy's heart beat a
trifle more audibly to the stethoscope, and her lungs had a
perceptible movement. Van Helsing's face almost beamed, and
as we lifted her from the bath and rolled her in a hot sheet
to dry her he said to me, "The first gain is ours! Check to
the King!"

We took Lucy into another room, which had by now been
prepared, and laid her in bed and forced a few drops of
brandy down her throat. I noticed that Van Helsing tied a
soft silk handkerchief round her throat. She was still
unconscious, and was quite as bad as, if not worse than, we
had ever seen her.

Van Helsing called in one of the women, and told her to
stay with her and not to take her eyes off her till we re-
turned, and then beckoned me out of the room.

"We must consult as to what is to be done," he said as
we descended the stairs. In the hall he opened the dining
room door, and we passed in, he closing the door carefully
behind him. The shutters had been opened, but the blinds
were already down, with that obedience to the etiquette of
death which the British woman of the lower classes always
rigidly observes. The room was, therefore, dimly dark. It
was, however, light enough for our purposes. Van Helsing's
sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of perplexity. He
was evidently torturing his mind about something, so I waited
for an instant, and he spoke.

"What are we to do now? Where are we to turn for help?
We must have another transfusion of blood, and that soon, or
that poor girl's life won't be worth an hour's purchase. You
are exhausted already. I am exhausted too. I fear to trust
those women, even if they would have courage to submit. What
are we to do for some one who will open his veins for her?"

"What's the matter with me, anyhow?"

The voice came from the sofa across the room, and its
tones brought relief and joy to my heart, for they were those
of Quincey Morris.

Van Helsing started angrily at the first sound, but his
face softened and a glad look came into his eyes as I cried
out, "Quincey Morris!" and rushed towards him with out-
stretched hands.

"What brought you her?" I cried as our hands met.

"I guess Art is the cause."

He handed me a telegram.-- `Have not heard from Seward
for three days, and am terribly anxious. Cannot leave. Father
still in same condition. Send me word how Lucy is. Do not
delay.--Holmwood.'

"I think I came just in the nick of time. You know you
have only to tell me what to do."

Van Helsing strode forward, and took his hand, looking
him straight in the eyes as he said, "A brave man's blood is
the best thing on this earth when a woman is in trouble.
You're a man and no mistake. Well, the devil may work
against us for all he's worth, but God sends us men when we
want them."

Once again we went through that ghastly operation. I
have not the heart to go through with the details. Lucy had
got a terrible shock and it told on her more than before, for
though plenty of blood went into her veins, her body did not
respond to the treatment as well as on the other occasions.
Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see
and hear. However, the action of both heart and lungs im-
proved, and Van Helsing made a sub-cutaneous injection of
morphia, as before, and with good effect. Her faint became
a profound slumber. The Professor watched whilst I went
downstairs with Quincey Morris, and sent one of the maids
to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting.

I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine,
and told the cook to get ready a good breakfast. Then a
thought struck me, and I went back to the room where Lucy
now was. When I came softly in, I found Van Helsing with a
sheet or two of note paper in his hand. He had evidently
read it, and was thinking it over as he sat with his hand to
his brow. There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face,
as of one who has had a doubt solved. He handed me the paper
saying only, "It dropped from Lucy's breast when we carried
her to the bath."

When I had read it, I stook looking at the Professor,
and after a pause asked him, "In God's name, what does it
all mean? Was she, or is she, mad, or what sort of horri-
ble danger is it?" I was so bewildered that I did not know
what to say more. Van Helsing put out his hand and took
the paper, saying,

"Do not trouble about it now. Forget if for the pre-
sent. You shall know and understand it all in good time, but
it will be later. And now what is it that you came to me to
say?" This brought me back to fact, and I was all myself
again.

"I came to speak about the certificate of death. If we do
not act properly and wisely, there may be an inquest, and
that paper would have to be produced. I am in hopes that we
need have no inquest, for if we had it would surely kill poor
Lucy, if nothing else did. I know, and you know, and the
other doctor who attended her knows, that Mrs. Westenra had
disease of the heart, and we can certify that she died of it.
Let us fill up the certificate at once, and I shall take it
myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker."

"Good, oh my friend John! Well thought of! Truly Miss
Lucy, if she be sad in the foes that beset her, is at least
happy in the friends thatlove her. One, two, three, all open
their veins for her, besides one old man. Ah, yes, I know,
friend John. I am not blind! I love you all the more for it!
Now go."

In the hall I met Quincey Morris, with a telegram for
Arthur telling him that Mrs. Westenra was dead, that Lucy
also had been ill, but was now going on better, and that Van
Helsing and I were with her. I told him where I was going,
and he hurried me out, but as I was going said,

"When you come back, Jack, may I have two words with you
all to ourselves?" I nodded in reply and went out. I found no
difficulty about the registration, and arranged with the local
undertaker to come up in the evening to measure for the
coffin and to make arrangements.

When I got back Quincey was waiting for me. I told him
I would see him as soon as I knew about Lucy, and went up to
her room. She was still sleeping, and the Professor seemingly
had not moved from his seat at her side. From his putting his
finger to his lips, I gathered that he expected her to wake
before long and was afraid of fore-stalling nature. So I went
down to Quincey and took him into the breakfast room, where
the blinds were not drawn down, and which was a little more
cheerful, or rather less cheerless, than the other rooms.

When we were alone, he said to me, "Jack Seward, I don't
want to shove myself in anywhere where I've no right to be,
but this is no ordinary case. You know I loved that girl and
wanted to marry her, but although that's all past and gone, I
can't help feeling anxious about her all the same. What is
it that's wrong with her? The Dutchman, and a fine old fellow
is is, I can see that, said that time you two came into the
room, that you must have another transfusion of blood, and
that both you and he were exhausted. Now I know well that you
medical men speak in camera, and that a man must not expect
to know what they consult about in private. But this is no
common matter, and whatever it is, I have done my part. Is not
that so?"

"That's so," I said, and he went on.

"I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done al-
ready what I did today. Is not that so?"

"That's so."

"And I guess Art was in it too. When I saw him four
days ago down at his own place he looked queer. I have not
seen anything pulled down so quick since I was on the Pampas
and had a mare that I was fond of go to grass all in a night.
One of those big bats that they call vampires had got at her
in the night, and what with his gorge and the vein left open,
there wasn't enough blood in her to let her stand up, and I
had to put a bullet through her as she lay. Jack, if you
may tell me without betraying confidence, Arthur was the
first, is not that so?"

As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious. He
was in a torture of suspense regarding the woman he loved,
and his utter ignorance of the terrible mystery which seem-
ed to surround her intensified his pain. His very heart
was bleeding, and it took all the manhood of him, and there
was a royal lot of it, too, to keep him from breaking down.
I paused before answering, for I felt that I must not betray
anything which the Professor wished kept secret, but already
he knew so much, and guessed so much, that there could be no
reason for not answering, so I answered in the same phrase.

"That's so."

"And how long has this been going on?"

"About ten days."

"Ten days! Then I guess, Jack Seward, that that poor
pretty creature that we all love has had put into her veins
within that time the blood of four strong men. Man alive,
her whole body wouldn't hold it." Then coming close to me,
he spoke in a fierce half-whisper. "What took it out?"

I shook my head. "That," I said, "is the crux. Van
Helsing is simply frantic about it, and I am at my wits' end.
I can't even hazard a guess. There has been a series of
little circumstances which have thrown out all our calcula-
tions as to Lucy being properly watched. But these shall
not occur again. Here we stay until all be well, or ill."

Quincey held out his hand. "Count me in," he said. "You
and the Dutchman will tell me what to do, and I'll do it."

When she woke late in the afternoon, Lucy's first move-
ment was to feel in her breast, and to my surprise, produced
the paper which Van Helsing had given me to read. The care-
ful Professor had replaced it where it had come from, lest
on waking she should be alarmed. Her eyes then lit on Van
Helsing and on me too, and gladdened. Then she looked round
the room, and seeing where she was, shuddered. She gave a
loud cry, and put her poor thin hands before her pale face.

We both understood what was meant, that she had real-
ized to the full her mother's death. So we tried what we
could to comfort her. Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat,
but she was very low in thought and spirit, and wept silently
and weakly for a long time. We told her that either or both
of us would now remain with her all the time, and that seemed
to comfort her. Towards dusk she fell into a doze. Here a
very odd thing occurred. Whilst still asleep she took the
paper from her breast and tore it in two. Van Helsing stepped
over and took the pieces from her. All the same, however,
she went on with the action of tearing, as though the mater-
ial were still in her hands. Finally she lifted her hands
and opened them as though scattering the fragments. Van
Helsing seemed surprised, and his brows gathered as if in
thought, but he said nothing.


19 September.--All last night she slept fitfully, being
always afraid to sleep, and something weaker when she woke
from it. The Professor and I took in turns to watch, and we
never left her for a moment unattended. Quincey Morris said
nothing about his intention, but I knew that all night long
he patrolled round and round the house.

When the day came, its searching light showed the rav-
ages in poor Lucy's strength. She was hardly able to turn
her head, and the little nourishment which she could take
seemed to do her no good. At times she slept, and both Van
Helsing and I noticed the difference in her, between sleep-
ing and waking. Whilst asleep she looked stronger, although
more haggard, and her breathing was softer. Her open mouth
showed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth, which looked
positively longer and sharper than usual. When she woke the
softness of her eyes evidently changed the expression, for
she looked her own self, although a dying one. In the after-
noon she asked for Arthur, and we telegraphed for him. Quinc-
ey went off to meet him at the station.

When he arrived it was nearly six o'clock, and the sun
was setting full and warm, and the red light streamed in
through the window and gave more color to the pale cheeks.
When he saw her, Arthur was simply choking with emotion, and
none of us could speak. In the hours that had passed, the fits
of sleep, or the comatose condition that passed for it, had
grown more frequent, so that the pauses when conversation was
possible were shortened. Arthur's presence, however, seemed
to act as a stimulant. She rallied a little, and spoke to him
more brightly than she had done since we arrived. He too
pulled himself together, and spoke as cheerily as he could,
so that the best was made of everything.

It is now nearly one o'clock, and he and Van Helsing
are sitting with her. I am to relieve them in a quarter
of an hour, and I am entering this on Lucy's phonograph. Until
six o'clock they are to try to rest. I fear that tomorrow
will end our watching, for the shock has been too great. The
poor child cannot rally. God help us all.




LETTER MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA

(Unopened by her)


17 September

My dearest Lucy,

"It seems an age since I heard from you, or indeed since
I wrote. You will pardon me, I know, for all my faults when
you have read all my budget of news. Well, I got my hus-
band back all right. When we arrived at Exeter there was a
carriage waiting for us, and in it, though he had an attack
of gout, Mr. Hawkins. He took us to his house, where there
were rooms for us all nice and comfortable, and we dined
together. After dinner Mr. Hawkins said,

" `My dears, I want to drink your health and prosper-
ity, and may every blessing attend you both. I know you
both from children, and have, with love and pride, seen you
grow up. Now I want you to make your home here with me. I
have left to me neither chick nor child.  All are gone, and in
my will I have left you everything.' I cried, Lucy dear, as
Jonathan and the old man clasped hands. Our evening was a
very, very happy one.

"So here we are, installed in this beautiful old house,
and from both my bedroom and the drawing room I can see the
great elms of the cathedral close, with their great black
stems standing out against the old yellow stone of the cath-
edral, and I can hear the rooks overhead cawing and cawing
and chattering and chattering and gossiping all day, after
the manner of rooks--and humans. I am busy, I need not tell
you, arranging things and housekeeping. Jonathan and Mr.
Hawkins are busy all day, for now that Jonathan is a partner,
Mr. Hawkins wants to tell him all about the clients.

"How is your dear mother getting on? I wish I could
run up to town for a day or two to see you, dear, but I, dare
not go yet, with so much on my shoulders, and Jonathan wants
looking after still. He is beginning to put some flesh on his
bones again, but he was terribly weakened by the long illness.
Even now he sometimes starts out of his sleep in a sudden
way and awakes all trembling until I can coax him back to
his usual placidity. However, thank God, these occasions grow
less frequent as the days go on, and they will in time pass
away altogether, I trust. And now I have told you my news,
let me ask yours. When are you to be married, and where, and
who is to perform the ceremony, and what are you to wear, and
is it to be a public or private wedding? Tell me all about
it, dear, tell me all about everything, for there is nothing
which interests you which will not be dear to me. Jonathan
asks me to send his `respectful duty', but I do not think
that is good enough from the junior partner of the important
firm Hawkins & Harker. And so, as you love me, and he loves
me, and I love you with all the moods and tenses of the verb,
I send you simply his `love' instead. Goodbye, my dearest
Lucy, and blessings on you."
Yours,
Mina Harker



REPORT FROM PATRICK HENNESSEY, MD, MRCSLK, QCPI, ETC, ETC,
TO JOHN SEWARD, MD

20 September

My dear Sir:

"In accordance with your wishes, I enclose report of
the conditions of everything left in my charge. With regard
to patient, Renfield, there is more to say. He has had an-
other outbreak, which might have had a dreadful ending, but
which, as it fortunately happened, was unattended with any
unhappy results. This afternoon a carrier's cart with two men
made a call at the empty house whose grounds abut on ours,
the house to which, you will remember, the patient twice ran
away. The men stopped at our gate to ask the porter their
way, as they were strangers.

"I was myself looking out of the study window, having a
smoke after dinner, and saw one of them come up to the house.
As he passed the window of Renfield's room, the patient be-
gan to rate him from within, and called him all the foul
names he could lay his tongue to. The man, who seemed a de-
cent fellow enough, contented himself by telling him to `shut
up for a foul-mouthed beggar', whereon our man accused him of
robbing him and wanting to murder him and said that he would
hinder him if he were to swing for it. I opened the window
and signed to the man not to notice, so he contented himself
after looking the place over and making up his mind as to
what kind of place he had got to by saying, `Lor' bless yer,
sir, I wouldn't mind what was said to me in a bloomin' mad-
house. I pity ye and the guv'nor for havin' to live in the
house with a wild beast like that.'

"Then he asked his way civilly enough, and I told him
where the gate of the empty house was. He went away follow-
ed by threats and curses and revilings from our man. I went
down to see if I could make out any cause for his anger,
since he is usually such a well-behaved man, and except his
violent fits nothing of the kind had ever occurred. I found
him, to my astonishment, quite composed and most genial in
his manner. I tried to get him to talk of the incident, but
he blandly asked me questions as to what I meant, and led me
to believe that he was completely oblivious of the affair.
It was, I am sorry to say, however, only another instance of
his cunning, for within half an hour I heard of him again.
This time he had broken out through the window of his room,
and was running down the avenue. I called to the attendants
to follow me, and ran after him, for I feared he was intent
on some mischief. My fear was justified when I saw the same
cart which had passed before coming down the road, having on
it some great wooden boxes. The men were wiping their fore-
heads, and were flushed in the face, as if with violent ex-
ercise. Before I could get up to him, the patient rushed at
them, and pulling one of them off the cart, began to knock
his head against the ground. If I had not seized him just
at the moment, I believe he would have killed the man there
and then. The other fellow jumped down and struck him over
the head with the butt end of his heavy whip. It was a
horrible blow, but he did not seem to mind it, but seized
him also, and struggled with the three of us, pulling us to
and fro as if we were kittens. You know I am no lightweight,
and the others were both burly men. At first he was silent
in his fighting, but as we began to master him, and the at-
tendants were putting a strait waistcoat on him, he began to
shout, `I'll frustrate them! They shan't rob me! They shan't
murder me by inches! I'll fight for my Lord and Master!'and
all sorts of similar incoherent ravings. It was with very
considerable difficulty that they got him back to the house
and put him in the padded room. One of the attendants,
Hardy, had a finger broken. However, I set it all right, and
he is going on well.

"The two carriers were at first loud in their threats
of actions for damages, and promised to rain all the pen-
alties of the law on us. Their threats were, however,
mingled with some sort of indirect apology for the defeat
of the two of them by a feeble madman. They said that if
it had not been for the way their strength had been spent
in carrying and raising the heavy boxes to the cart they
would have made short work of him. They gave as another
reason for their defeat the extraordinary state of drouth
to which they had been reduced by the dusty nature of
their occupation and the reprehensible distance from the
scene of their labors of any place of public entertainment.
I quite understood their drift, and after a stiff glass of
strong grog, or rather more of the same, and with each a
sovereign in hand, they made light of the attack, and swore
that they would encounter a worse madman any day for the
pleasure of meeting so `bloomin' good a bloke' as your
correspondent. I took their names and addresses, in case
they might be needed. They are as follows: Jack Smollet,
of Dudding's Rents, King George's Road, Great Walworth, and
Thomas Snelling, Peter Farley's Row, Guide Court, Bethnal
Green. They are both in the employment of Harris & Sons,
Moving and Shipment Company, Orange Master's Yard, Soho.

"I shall report to you any matter of interest occurr-
ing here, and shall wire you at once if there is anything of
importance.

"Believe me, dear Sir,

"Yours faithfully,

"Patrick Hennessey."



LETTER, MINA HARKER TO LUCY WESTENRA
(Unopened by her)


18 September

"My dearest Lucy,

"Such a sad blow has befallen us. Mr. Hawkins has died
very suddenly. Some may not think it so sad for us, but we
had both come to so love him that it really seems as though
we had lost a father. I never knew either father or mother,
so that the dear old man's death is a real blow to me. Jon-
athan is greatly distressed. It is not only that he feels
sorrow, deep sorrow, for the dear, good man who has befriended
him all his life, and now at the end has treated him like his
own son and left him a fortune which to people of our modest
bringing up is wealth beyond the dream of avarice, but Jona-
than feels it on another account. He says the amount of re-
sponsibility which it puts upon him makes him nervous. He
begins to doubt himself. I try to cheer him up, and my belief
in him helps him to have a belief in himself. But it is here
that the grave shock that he experienced tells upon him the
most. Oh, it is too hard that a sweet, simple, noble, strong
nature such as his, a nature which enabled him by our dear,
good friend's aid to rise from clerk to master in a few
years, should be so injured that the very essence of its
strength is gone. Forgive me, dear, if I worry you with my
troubles in the midst of your own happiness, but Lucy dear,
I must tell someone, for the strain of keeping up a brave and
cheerful appearance to Jonathan tries me, and I have no one
here that I can confide in. I dread coming up to London, as
we must do that day after tomorrow, for poor Mr. Hawkins left
in his will that he was to be buried in the grave with his
father. As there are no relations at all, Jonathan will have
to be chief mourner. I shall try to run over to see you,
dearest, if only for a few minutes. Forgive me for troubling
you. With all blessings,

"Your loving

Mina Harker"



DR. SEWARD' DIARY


20 September.--Only resolution and habit can let me
make an entry tonight. I am too miserable, too low spirited,
too sick of the world and all in it, including life itself,
that I would not care if I heard this moment the flapping of
the wings of the angel of death. And he has been flapping
those grim wings to some purpose of late, Lucy's mother and
Arthur's father, and now. . . Let me get on with my work.

I duly relieved Van Helsing in his watch over Lucy. We
wanted Arthur to go to rest also, but he refused at first.
It was only when I told him that we should want him to help
us during the day, and that we must not all break down for
want of rest, lest Lucy should suffer, that he agreed to go.

Van Helsing was very kind to him. "Come, my child," he
said. "Come with me. You are sick and weak, and have had
much sorrow and much mental pain, as well as that tax on your
strength that we know of. You must not be alone, for to be
alone is to be full of fears and alarms. Come to the drawing
room, where there is a big fire, and there are two sofas. You
shall lie on one, and I on the other, and our sympathy will
be comfort to each other, even though we do not speak, and
even if we sleep."

Arthur went off with him, casting back a longing look
on Lucy's face, which lay in her pillow, almost whiter than
the lawn. She lay quite still, and I looked around the room
to see that all was as it should be. I could see that the
Professor had carried out in this room, as in the other, his
purpose of using the garlic. The whole of the window sashes
reeked with it, and round Lucy's neck, over the silk hand-
kerchief which Van Helsing made her keep on, was a rough
chaplet of the same odorous flowers.

Lucy was breathing somewhat stertorously, and her face
was at its worst, for the open mouth showed the pale gums.
Her teeth, in the dim, uncertain light, seemed longer and
sharper than they had been in the morning. In particular,
by some trick of the light, the canine teeth looked longer
and sharper than the rest.

I sat down beside her, and presently she moved uneas-
ily. At the same moment there came a sort of dull flapping
or buffeting at the window. I went over to it softly, and
peeped out by the corner of the blind. There was a full
moonlight, and I could see that the noise was made by a great
bat, which wheeled around, doubtless attracted by the light,
although so dim, and every now and again struck the window
with its wings. When I came back to my seat, I found that
Lucy had moved slightly, and had torn away the garlic flowers
from her throat. I replaced them as well as I could, and sat
watching her.

Presently she woke, and I gave her food, as Van Helsing
had prescribed. She took but a little, and that languidly.
There did not seem to be with her now the unconscious strug-
gle for life and strength that had hitherto so marked her
illness. It struck me as curious that the moment she became
conscious she pressed the garlic flowers close to her. It
was certainly odd that whenever she got into that lethargic
state, with the stertorous breathing, she put the flowers
from her, but that when she waked she clutched them close,
There was no possibility of making amy mistake about this,
for in the long hours that followed, she had many spells
of sleeping and waking and repeated both actions many times.

At six o'clock Van Helsing came to relieve me. Arthur
had then fallen into a doze, and he mercifully let him sleep
on. When he saw Lucy's face I could hear the sissing indraw
of breath, and he said to me in a sharp whisper."Draw up the
blind. I want light!" Then he bent down, and, with his face
almost touching Lucy's, examined her carefully. He removed
the flowers and lifted the silk handkerchief from her throat.
As he did so he started back and I could hear his ejacula-
tion, "Mein Gott!" as it was smothered in his throat. I
bent over and looked, too, and as I noticed some queer chill
came over me. The wounds on the throat had absolutely dis-
appeared.

For fully five minutes Van Helsing stood looking at her,
with his face at its sternest. Then he turned to me and said
calmly, "She is dying. It will not be long now. It will be
much difference, mark me, whether she dies conscious or in
her sleep. Wake that poor boy, and let him come and see the
last. He trusts us, and we have promised him."

I went to the dining room and waked him. He was dazed
for a moment, but when he saw the sunlight streaming in
through the edges of the shutters he thought he was late, and
expressed his fear. I assured him that Lucy was still asleep,
but told him as gently as i could that both Van Helsing and
I feared that the end was near. He covered his face with his
hands, and slid down on his knees by the sofa, where he re-
mained, perhaps a minute, with his head buried, praying,
whilst his shoulders shook with grief. I took him by the
hand and raised him up. "Come," I said, "my dear old fellow,
summon all your fortitude. It will be best and easiest for
her."

When we came into Lucy's room I could see that Van Hel-
sing had, with his usual forethought, been putting matters
straight and making everything look as pleasing as possible.
He had even brushed Lucy's hair, so that it lay on the
pillow in its usual sunny ripples. When we came into the
room she opened her eyes, and seeing him, whispered softly,
"Arthur! Oh, my love, I am so glad you have come!"

He was stooping to kiss her, when Van Helsing motioned
him back. "No," he whispered, "not yet! Hold her hand, it
will comfort her more."

So Arthur took her hand and knelt beside her, and she
looked her best, with all the soft lines matching the angelic
beauty of her eyes. Then gradually her eyes closed, and she
sank to sleep. For a little bit her breast heaved softly,
and her breath came and went like a tired child's.

And then insensibly there came the strange change which
I had noticed in the night. Her breathing grew stertorous,
the mouth opened, and the pale gums, drawn back, made the
teeth look longer and sharper than ever. In a sort of sleep-
waking, vague, unconscious way she opened her eyes, which
were now dull and hard at once, and said in a soft, voluptuous
voice, such as I had never heard from her lips, "Arthur! Oh,
my love, I am so glad you have come! Kiss me!"

Arthur bent eagerly over to kiss her, but at that in-
stant Van Helsing, who, like me, had been startled by her
voice, swooped upon him, and catching him by the neck with
both hands, dragged him back with a fury of strength which
I never thought he could have possessed, and actually hurl-
ed him almost across the room.

"Not on your life!" he said, "not for your living soul
and hers!" And he stood between them like a lion at bay.

Arthur was so taken aback that he did not for a moment
know what to do or say, and before any impulse of violence
could seize him he realized the place and the occasion, and
stood silent, waiting.

I kept my eyes fixed on Lucy, as did Van Helsing, and
we saw a spasm as of rage flit like a shadow over her face.
The sharp teeth clamped together. Then her eyes closed, and
she breathed heavily.

Very shortly after she opened her eyes in all their
softness, and putting out her poor, pale, thin hand, took
Van Helsing's great brown one, drawing it close to her, she
kissed it. "My true friend," she said, in a faint voice, but
with untellable pathos, "My true friend, and his! Oh, guard
him, and give me peace!"

"I swear it!" he said solemnly, kneeling beside her
and holding up his hand, as one who registers an oath. Then
he turned to Arthur, and said to him, "Come, my child, take
her hand in yours, and kiss her on the forehead, and only
once."

Their eyes met instead of their lips, and so they part-
ed. Lucy's eyes closed, and Van Helsing, who had been watch-
ing closely, took Arthur's arm, and drew him away.

And then Lucy's breathing became stertorous again, and
all at once it ceased.

"It is all over," said Van Helsing. "She is dead!"

I took Arthur by the arm, and led him away to the draw-
ing room, where he sat down, and covered his face with his
hands, sobbing in a way that nearly broke me down to see.

I went back to the room, and found Van Helsing looking
at poor Lucy, and his face was sterner than eve. Some change
had come over her body. Death had given back part of her
beauty, for her brow and cheeks had recovered some of their
flowing lines. Even the lips had lost their deadly pallor.
It was as if the blood, no longer needed for the working of
the heart, had gone to make the harshness of death as little
rude as might be.

"We thought her dying whilst she slept,
And sleeping when she died."


I stood beside Van Helsing, and said, "Ah well, poor
girl, there is peace for her at last. It is the end!"

He turned to me, and said with grave solemnity, "Not so,
alas! Not so. It is only the beginning!"

When I asked him what he meant, he only shook his head
and answered, "We can do nothing as yet. Wait and see."





CHAPTER 13


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY--cont.


The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day,
so that Lucy and her mother might be buried together. I
attended to all the ghastly formalities, and the urbane
undertaker proved that his staff was afflicted, or blessed,
with something of his own obsequious suavity. Even the
woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked
to me, in a confidential, brother-professional way, when
she had come out from the death chamber,

"She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir. It's quite
a privilege to attend on her. It's not too much to say that
she will do credit to our establishment!"

I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away. This
was possible from the disordered state of things in the
household. There were no relatives at hand, and as Arthur
had to be back the next day to attend at his father's fun-
eral, we were unable to notify any one who should have been
bidden. Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it
upon ourselves to examine papers, etc. He insisted upon
looking over Lucy's papers himself. I asked him why, for I
feared that he, being a foreigner, might not be quite aware
of English legal requirements, and so might in ignorance make
some unnecessary trouble.

He answered me, "I know, I know. You forget that I am a
lawyer as well as a doctor. But this is not altogether for
the law. You knew that, when you avoided the coroner. I
have more than him to avoid. There may be papers more, such
as this."

As he spoke he took from his pocket book the memorandum
which had been in Lucy's breast, and which she had torn in
her sleep.

"When you find anything of the solicitor who is for the
late Mrs. Westenra, seal all her papers, and write him tonight.
For me, I watch here in the room and in Miss Lucy's old room
all night, and I myself search for what may be. It is not
well that her very thoughts go into the hands of strangers."

I went on with my part of the work, and in another half
hour had found the name and address of Mrs. Westenra's sol-
icitor and had written to him. All the poor lady's papers
were in order. Explicit directions regarding the place of
burial were given. I had hardly sealed the letter, when, to
my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room, saying,

"Can I help you friend John? I am free, and if I may,
my service is to you."

"Have you got what you looked for?" I asked.

To which he replied, "I did not look for any specific
thing. I only hoped to find, and find I have, all that there
was, only some letters and a few memoranda, and a diary new
begun. But I have them here, and we shall for the present
say nothing of them. I shall see that poor lad tomorrow
evening, and, with his sanction, I shall use some."

When we had finished the work in hand, he said to me,
"And now, friend John, I think we may to bed. We want sleep,
both you and I, and rest to recuperate. Tomorrow we shall
have much to do, but for the tonight there is no need of us.
Alas!"

Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy. The
undertaker had certainly done his work well, for the room
was turned into a small chapelle ardente. There was a wild-
erness of beautiful white flowers, and death was made as
little repulsive as might be. The end of the winding sheet
was laid over the face. When the Professor bent over and
turned it gently back, we both started at the beauty before
us. The tall wax candles showing a sufficient light to note
it well. All Lucy's loveliness had come back to her in death,
and the hours that had passed, instead of leaving traces of
`decay's effacing fingers', had but restored the beauty of
life, till positively I could not believe my eyes that I was
looking at a corpse.

The Professor looked sternly grave. He had not loved
her as I had, and there was no need for tears in his eyes.
He said to me, "Remain till I return," and left the room. He
came back with a handful of wild garlic from the box waiting
in the hall, but which had not been opened, and placed the
flowers amongst the others on and around the bed. Then he
took from his neck, inside his collar, a little gold cruci-
fix, and placed it over the mouth. He restored the sheet to
its place, and we came away.

I was undressing in my own room, when, with a premoni-
tory tap at the door, he entered, and at once began to speak.

"Tomorrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set
of post-mortem knives."

"Must we make an autopsy?" I asked.

"Yes and no. I want to operate, but not what you think.
Let me tell you now, but not a word to another. I want to
cut off her head and take out her heart. Ah! You a surgeon,
and so shocked! You, whom I have seen with no tremble of
hand or heart, do operations of life and death that make the
rest shudder. Oh, but I must not forget, my dear friend
John, that you loved her, and I have not forgotten it for is
I that shall operate, and you must not help. I would like to
do it tonight, but for Arthur I must not. He will be free
after his father's funeral tomorrow, and he will want to see
her, to see it. Then, when she is coffined ready for the
next day, you and I shall come when all sleep. We shall
unscrew the coffin lid, and shall do our operation, and then
replace all, so that none know, save we alone."

"But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate
her poor body without need? And if there is no necessity for
a post-mortem and nothing to gain by it, no good to her, to
us, to science, to human knowledge, why do it? Without such
it is monstrous."

For answer he put his hand on my shoulder, and said,
with infinite tenderness, "Friend John, I pity your poor
bleeding heart, and I love you the more because it does so
bleed. If I could, I would take on myself the burden that
you do bear. But there are things that you know not, but
that you shall know, and bless me for knowing, though they
are not pleasant things. John, my child, you have been my
friend now many years, and yet did you ever know me to do
any without good cause? I may err, I am but man, but I be-
lieve in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you
send for me when the great trouble came? Yes! Were you not
amazed, nay horrified, when I would not let Arthur kiss his
love, though she was dying, and snatched him away by all my
strength? Yes! And yet you saw how she thanked me, with her
so beautiful dying eyes, her voice, too, so weak, and she
kiss my rough old hand and bless me? Yes! And did you not
hear me swear promise to her, that so she closed her eyes
grateful? Yes!

"Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do. You
have for many years trust me. You have believe me weeks past,
when there be things so strange that you might have well
doubt. Believe me yet a little, friend John. If you trust me
not, then I must tell what I think, and that is not perhaps
well. And if I work, as work I shall, no matter trust or no
trust, without my friend trust in me, I work with heavy heart
and feel, oh so lonely when I want all help and courage that
may be!" He paused a moment and went on solemnly, "Friend
John, there are strange and terrible days before us. Let us
not be two, but one, that so we work to a good end. Will you
not have faith in me?"

I took his hand, and promised him. I held my door open
as he went away, and watched him go to his room and close the
door. As I stood without moving, I saw one of the maids pass
silently along the passage, she had her back to me, so did
not see me, and go into the room where Lucy lay. The sight
touched me. Devotion is so rare, and we are so grateful to
those who show it unasked to those we love. Here was a poor
girl putting aside the terrors which she naturally had of
death to go watch alone by the bier of the mistress whom she
loved, so that the poor clay might not be lonely till laid
to eternal rest.

I must have slept long and soundly, for it was broad
daylight when Van Helsing waked me by coming into my room.
He came over to my bedside and said, "You need not trouble
about the knives. We shall not do it."

"Why not?" I asked. For his solemnity of the night
before had greatly impressed me.

"Because," he said sternly, "it is too late, or too
early. See!" Here he held up the little golden crucifix.

"This was stolen in the night."

"How stolen, "I asked in wonder, "since you have it now?"

"Because I get it back from the worthless wretch who
stole it, from the woman who robbed the dead and the living.
Her punishment will surely come, but not through me. She
knew not altogether what she did, and thus unknowing, she
only stole. Now we must wait." He went away on the word,
leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a new puzzle to
grapple with.

The forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solici-
tor came, Mr. Marquand, of Wholeman, Sons, Marquand & Lidder-
dale. He was very genial and very appreciative of what we
had done, and took off our hands all cares as to details.
During lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for some time
expected sudden death from her heart, and had put her affairs
in absolute order. He informed us that, with the exception
of a certain entailed property of Lucy's father which now,
in default of direct issue, went back to a distant branch of
the family, the whole estate, real and personal, was left
absolutely to Arthur Holmwood. When he had told us so much
he went on,

"Frankly we did our best to prevent such a testamentary
disposition, and pointed out certain contingencies that might
leave her daughter either penniless or not so free as she
should be to act regarding a matrimonial alliance. Indeed,
we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into colli-
sion, for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to
carry out her wishes. Of course, we had then no alternative
but to accept. We were right in principle, and ninety-nine
times out of a hundred we should have proved, by the logic of
events, the accuracy of our judgment.

"Frankly, however, I must admit that in this case any
other form of disposition would have rendered impossible the
carrying out of her wishes. For by her predeceasing her
daughter the latter would have come into possession of the
property, and, even had she only survived her mother by five
minutes, her property would, in case there were no will, and
a will was a practical impossibility in such a case, have
been treated at her decease as under intestacy. In which
case Lord Godalming, though so dear a friend, would have had
no claim in the world. And the inheritors, being remote,
would not be likely to abandon their just rights, for senti-
mental reasons regarding an entire stranger. I assure you,
my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result, perfectly rejoiced."

He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one
little part, in which he was officially interested, of so
great a tragedy, was an object-lesson in the limitations of
sympathetic understanding.

He did not remain long, but said he would look in later
in the day and see Lord Godalming. His coming, however, had
been a certain comfort to us, since it assured us that we
should not have to dread hostile criticism as to any of our
acts.  Arthur was expected at five o'clock, so a little before
that time we visited the death chamber. It was so in very
truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it. The under-
taker, true to his craft, had made the best display he could
of his goods, and there was a mortuary air about the place
that lowered our spirits at once.

Van Helsing ordered the former arrangement to be adher-
ed to, explaining that, as Lord Godalming was coming very
soon, it would be less harrowing to his feelings to see all
that was left of his fiancee quite alone.

The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity and
exerted himself to restore things to the condition in which
we left them the night before, so that when Arthur came such
shocks to his feelings as we could avoid were saved.

Poor fellow! He looked desperately sad and broken. Even
his stalwart manhood seemed to have shrunk somewhat under
the strain of his much-tried emotions. He had, I knew, been
very genuinely and devotedly attached to his father, and to
lose him, and at such a time, was a bitter blow to him. With
me he was warm as ever, and to Van Helsing he was sweetly
courteous. But I could not help seeing that there was some
constraint with him. The professor noticed it too, and
motioned me to bring him upstairs. I did so, and left him
at the door of the room, as I felt he would like to be
quite alone with her, but he took my arm and led me in, say-
ing huskily,

"You loved her too, old fellow. She told me all about
it, and there was no friend had a closer place in her heart
than you. I don't know how to thank you for all you have
done for her. I can't think yet. . ."

Here he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round
my shoulders and laid his head on my breast, crying, "Oh,
Jack! Jack! What shall I do? The whole of life seems gone
from me all at once, and there is nothing in the wide world
for me to live for."

I comforted him as well as I could. In such cases men
do not need much expression. A grip of the hand, the tight-
ening of an arm over the shoulder, a sob in unison, are ex-
pressions of sympathy dear to a man's heart. I stood still
and silent till his sobs died away, and then I said softly to
him, "Come and look at her."

Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn
from her face. God! How beautiful she was. Every hour seem-
ed to be enhancing her loveliness. It frightened and amazed
me somewhat. And as for Arthur, he fell to trembling, and
finally was shaken with doubt as with an ague.  At last, after
a long pause, he said to me in a faint whisper, "Jack, is she
really dead?"

I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to sug-
gest, for I felt that such a horrible doubt should not have
life for a moment longer than I could help, that it often
happened that after death faces become softened and even
resolved into their youthful beauty, that this was especially
so when death had been preceded by any acute or prolonged
suffering. I seemed to quite do away with any doubt, and af-
ter kneeling beside the couch for a while and looking at her
lovingly and long, he turned aside. I told him that that must
be goodbye, as the coffin had to be prepared, so he went back
and took her dead hand in his and kissed it, and bent over
and kissed her forehead. He came away, fondly looking back
over his shoulder at her as he came.

I left him in the drawing room, and told Van Helsing
that he had said goodbye, so the latter went to the kitchen
to tell the undertaker's men to proceed with the prepera-
tions and to screw up the coffin. When he came out of the
room again I told him of Arthur's question, and he replied,
"I am not surprised. Just now I doubted for a moment myself!"

We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art
was trying to make the best of things. Van Helsing had been
silent all dinner time, but when we had lit our cigars he
said, "Lord. . ., but Arthur interrupted him.

"No, no, not that, for God's sake! Not yet at any rate.
Forgive me, sir. I did not mean to speak offensively. It is
only because my loss is so recent."

The Professor answered very sweetly, "I only used that
name because I was in doubt. I must not call you `Mr.' and
I have grown to love you, yes, my dear boy, to love you, as
Arthur."

Arthur held out his hand, and took the old man's warmly.
"Call me what you will," he said. "I hope I may always have
the title of a friend. And let me say that I am at a loss
for words to thank you for your goodness to my poor dear."
He paused a moment, and went on, "I know that she understood
your goodness even better than I do. And if I was rude or in
any way wanting at that time you acted so, you remember,"--
the Professor nodded--"You must forgive me."

He answered with a grave kindness, "I know it was hard
for you to quite trust me then, for to trust such violence
needs to understand, and I take it that you do not, that you
cannot, trust me now, for you do not yet understand. And
there may be more times when I shall want you to trust when
you cannot, and may not, and must not yet understand.  But the
time will come when your trust shall be whole and complete
in me, and when you shall understand as though the sunlight
himself shone through. Then you shall bless me from first to
last for your own sake, and for the sake of others, and for
her dear sake to whom I swore to protect."

"And indeed, indeed, sir," said Arthur warmly. "I shall
in all ways trust you. I know and believe you have a very
noble heart, and you are Jack's friend, and you were hers.
You shall do what you like."

The Professor cleared his throat a couple of times, as
though about to speak, and finally said, "May I ask you
something now?"

"Certainly."

"You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property?"

"No, poor dear. I never thought of it."

"And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with
it as you will. I want you to give me permission to read all
Miss Lucy's papers and letters. Believe me, it is no idle
curiosity. I have a motive of which, be sure, she would have
approved. I have them all here. I took them before we knew
that all was yours, so that no strange hand might touch them,
no strange eye look through words into her soul. I shall
keep them, if I may. Even you may not see them yet, but I
shall keep them safe. No word shall be lost, and in the
good time I shall give them back to you. It is a hard thing
that I ask, but you will do it, will you not, for Lucy's
sake?"

Arthur spoke out heartily, like his old self, "Dr. Van
Helsing, you may do what you will. I feel that in saying
this I am doing what my dear one would have approved. I
shall not trouble you with questions till the time comes."

The old Professor stood up as he said solemnly, "And you
are right. There will be pain for us all, but it will not be
all pain, nor will this pain be the last. We and you too, you
most of all, dear boy, will have to pass through the bitter
water before we reach the sweet. But we must be brave of
heart and unselfish, and do our duty, and all will be well!"

I slept on a sofa in Arthur's room that night. Van Hel-
sing did not go to bed at all. He went to and fro, as if
patroling the house, and was never out of sight of the room
where Lucy lay in her coffin, strewn with the wild garlic
flowers, which sent through the odor of lily and rose, a
heavy, overpowering smell into the night.




MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL


22 September.--In the train to Exeter. Jonathan sleep-
ing. It seems only yesterday that the last entry was made,
and yet how much between then, in Whitby and all the world
before me, Jonathan away and no news of him, and now, marr-
ied to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a partner, rich, mas-
ter of his business, Mr. Hawkins dead and buried, and Jona-
than with another attack that may harm him. Some day he may
ask me about it. Down it all goes. I am rusty in my short-
hand, see what unexpected prosperity does for us, so it may
be as well to freshen it up again with an exercise anyhow.

The service was very simple and very solemn. There were
only ourselves and the servants there, one or two old friends
of his from Exeter, his London agent, and a gentleman repre-
senting Sir John Paxton, the President of the Incorporated
Law Society. Jonathan and I stood hand in hand, and we felt
that our best and dearest friend was gone from us.

We came back to town quietly, taking a bus to Hyde Park
Corner. Jonathan thought it would interest me to go into
the Row for a while, so we sat down. But there were very
few people there, and it was sad-looking and desolate to see
so many empty chairs. It made us think of the empty chair at
home. So we got up and walked down Piccadilly. Jonathan was
holding me by the arm, the way he used to in the old days
before I went to school. I felt it very improper, for you
can't go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum to
other girls without the pedantry of it biting into yourself
a bit. But it was Jonathan, and he was my husband, and we
didn't know anybody who saw us, and we didn't care if they
did, so on we walked. I was looking at a very beautiful girl,
in a big cart-wheel hat, sitting in a victoria outside Guil-
iano's, when I felt Jonathan clutch my arm so tight that he
hurt me, and he said under his breath, "My God!"

I am always anxious about Jonathan, for I fear that
some nervous fit may upset him again. So I turned to him
quickly, and asked him what it was that disturbed him.

He was very pale, and his eyes seemed bulging out as,
half in terror and half in amazement, he gazed at a tall,
thin man, with a beaky nose and black moustache and pointed
beard, who was also observing the pretty girl. He was looking
at her so hard that he did not see either of us, and so I had
a good view of him. His face was not a good face. It was
hard, and cruel, and sensual, and big white teeth, that looked
all the whiter because his lips were so red, were pointed
like an animal's. Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was
afraid he would notice. I feared he might take it ill, he
looked so fierce and nasty. I asked Jonathan why he was dis-
turbed, and he answered, evidently thinking that I knew as
much about it as he did, "Do you see who it is?"

"No, dear," I said. "I don't know him, who is it?"
His answer seemed to shock and thrill me, for it was said as
if he did not know that it was me, Mina, to whom he was
speaking. "It is the man himself!"

The poor dear was evidently terrified at something, very
greatly terrified. I do believe that if he had not had me
to lean on and to support him he would have sunk down. He
kept staring. A man came out of the shop with a small parcel,
and gave it to the lady, who then drove off. Th e dark man
kept his eyes fixed on her, and when the carriage moved up
Piccadilly he followed in the same direction, and hailed a
hansom. Jonathan kept looking after him, and said, as if to
himself,

"I believe it is the Count, but he has grown young. My
God, if this be so! Oh, my God! My God! If only I knew! If
only I knew!" He was distressing himself so much that I fear-
ed to keep his mind on the subject by asking him any ques-
tions, so I remained silent. I drew away quietly, and he,
holding my arm, came easily. We walked a little further, and
then went in and sat for a while in the Green Park. It was
a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable seat in a
shady place. After a few minutes' staring at nothing, Jona-
than's eyes closed, and he went quickly into a sleep, with
his head on my shoulder. I thought it was the best thing for
him, so did not disturb him. In about twenty minutes he woke
up, and said to me quite cheerfully,

"Why, Mina, have I been asleep! Oh, do forgive me for
being so rude. Come, and we'll have a cup of tea somewhere."

He had evidently forgotten all about the dark stranger,
as in his illness he had forgotten all that this episode
had reminded him of. I don't like this lapsing into forget-
fulness. It may make or continue some injury to the brain.
I must not ask him, for fear I shall do more harm than good,
but I must somehow learn the facts of his journey abroad. The
time is come, I fear, when I must open the parcel, and know
what is written. Oh, Jonathan, you will, I know, forgive me
if I do wrong, but it is for your own dear sake.


Later.--A sad home-coming in every way, the house empty
of the dear soul who was so good to us. Jonathan still pale
and dizzy under a slight relapse of his malady, and now a
telegram from Van Helsing, whoever he may be. "You will be
grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago, and
that Lucy died the day before yesterday. They were both
buried today."

Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words! Poor Mrs.
Westenra! Poor Lucy! Gone, gone, never to return to us!
And poor, poor Arthur, to have lost such a sweetness out of
his life! God help us all to bear our troubles.


DR. SEWARD'S DIARY-CONT.


22 September.--It is all over. Arthur has gone back to
Ring, and has taken Quincey Morris with him. What a fine
fellow is Quincey! I believe in my heart of hearts that he
suffered as much about Lucy's death as any of us, but he bore
himself through it like a moral Viking. If America can go on
breeding men like that, she will be a power in the world in-
deed. Van Helsing is lying down, having a rest preparatory
to his journey. He goes to Amsterdam tonight, but says he
returns tomorrow night, that he only wants to make some
arrangements which can only be made personally. He is to
stop with me then, if he can. He says he has work to do in
London which may take him some time. Poor old fellow! I fear
that the strain of the past week has broken down even his
iron strength.  All the time of the burial he was, I could see,
putting some terrible restraint on himself. When it was all
over, we were standing beside Arthur, who, poor fellow, was
speaking of his part in the operation where his blood had
been transfused to his Lucy's veins. I could see Van Hel-
sing's face grow white and purple by turns. Arthur was
saying that he felt since then as if they two had been
really married, and that she was his wife in the sight of God.
None of us said a word of the other operations, and none of
us ever shall. Arthur and Quincey went away together to the
station, and Van Helsing and I came on here. The moment we
were alone in the carriage he gave way to a regular fit of
hysterics. He has denied to me since that it was hysterics,
and insisted that it was only his sense of humor asserting
itself under very terrible conditions. He laughed till he
cried, and I had to draw down the blinds lest any one should
see us and misjudge.  And then he cried, till he laughed again,
and laughed and cried together, just as a woman does. I tried
to be stern with him, as one is to a woman under the circum-
stances, but it had no effect. Men and women are so different
in manifestations of nervous strength or weakness! Then when
his face grew grave and stern again I asked him why his
mirth, and why at such a time. His reply was in a way char-
acteristic of him, for it was logical and forceful and mys-
terious. He said,

"Ah, you don't comprehend, friend John. Do not think
that I am not sad, though I laugh. See, I have cried even
when the laugh did choke me. But no more think that I am all
sorry when I cry, for the laugh he come just the same. Keep
it always with you that laughter who knock at your door and
say, `May I come in?' is not true laughter. No! He is a king,
and he come when and how he like. He ask no person, he choose
no time of suitability. He say, `I am here.' Behold, in ex-
ample I grieve my heart out for that so sweet young girl. I
give my blood for her, though I am old and worn. I give my
time, my skill, my sleep. I let my other sufferers want that
she may have all. And yet I can laugh at her very grave,
laugh when the clay from the spade of the sexton drop upon
her coffin and say `Thud, thud!' to my heart, till it send
back the blood from my cheek. My heart bleed for that poor
boy, that dear boy, so of the age of mine own boy had I been
so blessed that he live, and with his hair and eyes the same.

"There, you know now why I love him so. And yet when
he say things that touch my husband-heart to the quick, and
make my father-heart yearn to him as to no other man, not
even you, friend John, for we are more level in experiences
than father and son, yet even at such a moment King Laugh he
come to me and shout and bellow in my ear,`Here I am! Here I
am!' till the blood come dance back and bring some of the
sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek. Oh, friend John,
it is a strange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries,
and woes, and troubles.  And yet when King Laugh come, he make
them all dance to the tune he play. Bleeding hearts, and dry
bones of the churchyard, and tears that burn as they fall,
all dance together to the music that he make with that smile-
less mouth of him. And believe me, friend John, that he is
good to come, and kind. Ah, we men and women are like ropes
drawn tight with strain that pull us different ways. Then
tears come, and like the rain on the ropes, they brace us up,
until perhaps the strain become too great, and we break. But
King Laugh he come like the sunshine, and he ease off the
strain again, and we bear to go on with our labor, what it
may be."

I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see
his idea, but as I did not yet understand the cause of his
laughter, I asked him. As he answered me his face grew
stern, and he said in quite a different tone,

"Oh, it was the grim irony of it all, this so lovely lady
garlanded with flowers, that looked so fair as life, till one
by one we wondered if she were truly dead, she laid in that
so fine marble house in that lonely churchyard, where rest so
many of her kin, laid there with the mother who loved her,
and whom she loved, and that sacred bell going "Toll! Toll!
Toll!' so sad and slow, and those holy men, with the white
garments of the angel, pretending to read books, and yet all
the time their eyes never on the page, and all of us with the
bowed head. And all for what? She is dead, so! Is it not?"

"Well, for the life of me, Professor," I said, "I can't
see anything to laugh at in all that. Why, your expression
makes it a harder puzzle than before. But even if the burial
service was comic, what about poor Art and his trouble? Why
his heart was simply breaking."

"Just so. Said he not that the transfusion of his blood
to her veins had made her truly his bride?"

"Yes, and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him."

"Quite so. But there was a difficulty, friend John. If
so that, then what about the others? Ho, ho! Then this so
sweet maid is a polyandrist, and me, with my poor wife dead to
me, but alive by Church's law, though no wits, all gone, even
I, who am faithful husband to this now-no-wife, am bigamist."

"I don't see where the joke comes in there either!" I
said, and I did not feel particularly pleased with him for
saying such things. He laid his hand on my arm, and said,

"Friend John, forgive me if I pain. I showed not my
feeling to others when it would wound, but only to you, my
old friend, whom I can trust. If you could have looked in-
to my heart then when I want to laugh, if you could have done
so when the laugh arrived, if you could do so now, when King
Laugh have pack up his crown, and all that is to him, for he
go far, far away from me, and for a long, long time, maybe
you would perhaps pity me the most of all."

I was touched by the tenderness of his tone, and asked
why.

"Because I know!"

And now we are all scattered, and for many a long day
loneliness will sit over our roofs with brooding wings. Lucy
lies in the tomb of her kin, a lordly death house in a lonely
churchyard, away from teeming London, where the air is fresh,
and the sun rises over Hampstead Hill, and where wild flowers
grow of their own accord.

So I can finish this diary, and God only knows if I
shall ever begin another. If I do, or if I even open this
again, it will be to deal with different people and differ-
ent themes, for here at the end, where the romance of my life
is told, ere I go back to take up the thread of my life-work,
I say sadly and without hope, "FINIS".




THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER
A HAMPSTEAD MYSTERY


The neighborhood of Hampstead is just at present exer-
cised with a series of events which seem to run on lines
parallel to those of what was known to the writers of head-
lines and "The Kensington Horror," or "The Stabbing Woman,"
or "The Woman in Black." During the past two or three days
several cases have occurred of young children straying from
home or neglecting to return from their playing on the Heath.
In all these cases the children were too young to give any
properly intelligible account of themselves, but the consen-
sus of their excuses is that they had been with a "bloofer
lady." It has always been late in the evening when they have
been missed, and on two occasions the children have not been
found until early in the following morning. It is generally
supposed in the neighborhood that, as the first child missed
gave as his reason for being away that a "bloofer lady" had
asked him to come for a walk, the others had picked up the
phrase and used it as occasion served. This is the more nat-
ural as the favorite game of the little ones at present is
luring each other away by wiles. A correspondent writes us
that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the"bloo-
fer lady" is supremely funny. Some of our caricaturists might,
he says, take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by comparing
the reality and the picture. It is only in accordance with
general principles of human nature that the "bloofer lady"
should be the popular role at these al fresco performances.
Our correspondent naively says that even Ellen Terry could
not be so winningly attractive as some of these grubby-faced
little children pretend, and even imagine themselves, to be.

There is, however, possibly a serious side to the ques-
tion, for some of the children, indeed all who have been
missed at night, have been slightly torn or wounded in the
throat. The wounds seem such as might be made by a rat or a
small dog, and although of not much importance individually,
would tend to show that whatever animal inflicts them has a
system or method of its own. The police of the division
have been instructed to keep a sharp lookout for straying
children, especially when very young, in and around Hamp-
stead Heath, and for any stray dog which may be about.




THE WESTMINSTER GAZETTE, 25 SEPTEMBER
EXTRA SPECIAL

THE HAMPSTEAD HORROR


ANOTHER CHILD INJURED

THE "BLOOFER LADY"


We have just received intelligence that another child,
missed last night, was only discovered late in the morning
under a furze bush at the Shooter's Hill side of Hampstead
Heath, which is perhaps, less frequented than the other parts.
It has the same tiny wound in the throat as has been noticed
in other cases. It was terribly weak, and looked quite ema-
ciated. It too, when partially restored, had the common story
to tell of being lured away by the "bloofer lady".





CHAPTER 14


MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL


23 September.--Jonathan is better after a bad night. I
am so glad that he has plenty of work to do, for that keeps
his mind off the terrible things, and oh, I am rejoiced that
he is not now weighed down with the responsibility of his
new position. I knew he would be true to himself, and now
how proud I am to see my Jonathan rising to the height of
his advancement and keeping pace in all ways with the duties
that come upon him. He will be away all day till late, for
he said he could not lunch at home. My household work is
done, so I shall take his foreign journal, and lock myself
up in my room and read it.


24 September.--I hadn't the heart to write last night,
that terrible record of Jonathan's upset me so. Poor dear!
How he must have suffered, whether it be true or only imag-
ination. I wonder if there is any truth in it at all. Did
he get his brain fever, and then write all those terrible
things, or had he some cause for it all? I suppose I shall
never know, for I dare not open the subject to him. And yet
that man we saw yesterday! He seemed quite certain of him,
poor fellow! I suppose it was the funeral upset him and sent
his mind back on some train of thought.

He believes it all himself. I remember how on our wedd-
ing day he said "Unless some solemn duty come upon me to go
back to the bitter hours, asleep or awake, mad or sane. . ."
There seems to be through it all some thread of continuity.
That fearful Count was coming to London. If it should be,
and he came to London, with its teeming millions. . .There
may be a solemn duty, and if it come we must not shrink from
it. I shall be prepared. I shall get my typewriter this very
hour and begin transcribing. Then we shall be ready for other
eyes if required. And if it be wanted, then, perhaps, if I
am ready, poor Jonathan may not be upset, for I can speak for
him and never let him be troubled or worried with it at all.
If ever Jonathan quite gets over the nervousness he may want
to tell me of it all, and I can ask him questions and find
out things, and see how I may comfort him.




LETTER, VAN HELSING TO MRS. HARKER


24 September

(Confidence)

"Dear Madam,

"I pray you to pardon my writing, in that I am so far
friend as that I sent to you sad news of Miss Lucy Westenra's
death. By the kindness of Lord Godalming, I am empowered to
read her letters and papers, for I am deeply concerned about
certain matters vitally important. In them I find some
letters from you, which show how great friends you were and
how you love her. Oh, Madam Mina, by that love, I implore
you, help me. It is for others' good that I ask, to redress
great wrong, and to lift much and terrible troubles, that
may be more great than you can know. May it be that I see
you? You can trust me. I am friend of Dr. John Seward and
of Lord Godalming (that was Arthur of Miss Lucy). I must
keep it private for the present from all. I should come to
Exeter to see you at once if you tell me I am privilege to
come, and where and when. I implore your pardon, Madam. I
have read your letters to poor Lucy, and know how good you
are and how your husband suffer. So I pray you, if it may
be, enlighten him not, least it may harm. Again your pardon,
and forgive me.

"VAN HELSING"




TELEGRAM, MRS. HARKER TO VAN HELSING


25 September.--Come today by quarter past ten train if
you can catch it. Can see you any time you call.
"WILHELMINA HARKER"




MINA HARKER'S JOURNAL


25 September.--I cannot help feeling terribly excited
as the time draws near for the visit of Dr. Van Helsing, for
somehow I expect that it will throw some light upon Jona-
than's sad experience, and as he attended poor dear Lucy in
her last illness, he can tell me all about her. That is the
reason of his coming. It is concerning Lucy and her sleep-
walking, and not about Jonathan. Then I shall never know
the real truth now! How silly I am. That awful journal gets
hold of my imagination and tinges everything with something
of its own color. Of course it is about Lucy. That habit
came back to the poor dear, and that awful night on the cliff
must have made her ill. I had almost forgotten in my own
affairs how ill she was afterwards. She must have told him
of her sleep-walking adventure on the cliff, and that I knew
all about it, and now he wants me to tell him what I know, so
that he may understand. I hope I did right in not saying
anything of it to Mrs. Westenra. I should never forgive my-
self if any act of mine, were it even a negative one, brought
harm on poor dear Lucy. I hope too, Dr. Van Helsing will not
blame me. I have had so much trouble and anxiety of late
that I feel I cannot bear more just at present.

I suppose a cry does us all good at times, clears the
air as other rain does. Perhaps it was reading the journal
yesterday that upset me, and then Jonathan went away this
morning to stay away from me a whole day and night, the first
time we have been parted since our marriage. I do hope the
dear fellow will take care of himself, and that nothing will
occur to upset him. It is two o'clock, and the doctor will
be here soon now. I shall say nothing of Jonathan's journal
unless he asks me. I am so glad I have typewritten out my
own journal, so that, in case he asks about Lucy, I can hand
it to him. It will save much questioning.

Later.--He has come and gone. Oh, what a strange meet-
ing, and how it all makes my head whirl round. I feel like
one in a dream. Can it be all possible, or even a part of it?
If I had not read Jonathan's journal first, I should never
have accepted even a possibility. Poor, poor, dear Jonathan!
How he must have suffered. Please the good God, all this may
not upset him again. I shall try to save him from it. But
it may be even a consolation and a help to him, terrible
though it be and awful in its consequences, to know for cer-
tain that his eyes and ears and brain did not deceive him,
and that it is all true. It may be that it is the doubt which
haunts him, that when the doubt is removed, no matter which,
waking or dreaming, may prove the truth, he will be more
satisfied and better able to bear the shock. Dr. Van Helsing
must be a good man as well as a clever one if he is Arthur's
friend and Dr. Seward's, and if they brought him all the way
from Holland to look after Lucy. I feel from having seen him
that he is good and kind and of a noble nature. When he
comes tomorrow I shall ask him about Jonathan. And then,
please God, all this sorrow and anxiety may lead to a good
end. I used to think I would like to practice interviewing.
Jonathan's friend on "The Exeter News" told him that memory
is everything in such work, that you must be able to put
down exactly almost every word spoken, even if you had to
refine some of it afterwards. Here was a rare interview. I
shall try to record it verbatim.

It was half-past two o'clock when the knock came. I
took my courage a deux mains and waited. In a few minutes
Mary opened the door, and announced "Dr. Van Helsing".

I rose and bowed, and he came towards me, a man of med-
ium weight, strongly built, with his shoulders set back over
a broad, deep chest and a neck well balanced on the trunk as
the head is on the neck. The poise of the head strikes me at
once as indicative of thought and power. The head is noble,
well-sized, broad, and large behind the ears. The face, clean-
shaven, shows a hard, square chin, a large resolute, mobile
mouth, a good-sized nose, rather straight, but with quick,
sensitive nostrils, that seem to broaden as the big bushy
brows come down and the mouth tightens. The forehead is broad
and fine, rising at first almost straight and then sloping
back above two bumps or ridges wide apart, such a forehead
that the reddish hair cannot possibly tumble over it, but
falls naturally back and to the sides. Big, dark blue eyes
are set widely apart, and are quick and tender or stern with
the man's moods. He said to me,

"Mrs. Harker, is it not?" I bowed assent.

"That was Miss Mina Murray?" Again I assented.

"It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend
of that poor dear child Lucy Westenra. Madam Mina, it is on
account of the dead that I come."

"Sir," I said, "you could have no better claim on me
than that you were a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra."And
I held out my hand. He took it and said tenderly,

"Oh, Madam Mina, I know that the friend of that poor
little girl must be good, but I had yet to learn. . ." He
finished his speech with a courtly bow. I asked him what it
was that he wanted to see me about, so he at once began.

"I have read your letters to Miss Lucy. Forgive me, but
I had to begin to inquire somewhere, and there was none to
ask. I know that you were with her at Whitby. She sometimes
kept a diary, you need not look surprised, Madam Mina. It
was begun after you had left, and was an imitation of you,
and in that diary she traces by inference certain things to
a sleep-walking in which she puts down that you saved her. In
great perplexity then I come to you, and ask you out of your
so much kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember."

"I can tell you, I think, Dr. Van Helsing, all about
it."

"Ah, then you have good memory for facts, for details?
It is not always so with young ladies."

"No, doctor, but I wrote it all down at the time. I can
show it to you if you like."

"Oh, Madam Mina, I well be grateful. You will do me much
favor."

I could not resist the temptation of mystifying him a
bit, I suppose it is some taste of the original apple that
remains still in our mouths, so I handed him the shorthand
diary. He took it with a grateful bow, and said, "May I read
it?"

"If you wish," I answered as demurely as I could. He
opened it, and for an instant his face fell. Then he stood
up and bowed.

"Oh, you so clever woman!" he said. "I knew long that
Mr. Jonathan was a man of much thankfulness, but see, his
wife have all the good things.  And will you not so much honor
me and so help me as to read it for me? Alas! I know not
the shorthand."

By this time my little joke was over, and I was almost
ashamed. So I took the typewritten copy from my work basket
and handed it to him.

"Forgive me," I said. "I could not help it, but I had
been thinking that it was of dear Lucy that you wished to
ask, and so that you might not have time to wait, not on my
account, but because I know your time must be precious, I
have written it out on the typewriter for you."

He took it and his eyes glistened. "You are so good,"
he said. "And may I read it now? I may want to ask you some
things when I have read."

"By all means," I said. "read it over whilst I order
lunch, and then you can ask me questions whilst we eat."

He bowed and settled himself in a chair with his back
to the light, and became so absorbed in the papers, whilst I
went to see after lunch chiefly in order that he might not
be disturbed. When I came back, I found him walking hurried-
ly up and down the room, his face all ablaze with excitement.
He rushed up to me and took me by both hands.

